
Video Backup System
by Lyppens Software Productions

Cost: 60 UK pounds for phone version or 65 UK pounds for SCART version
Available from Power Computing

Tested on a A1200 with 2meg chip and 4meg fast 540HD.

The  Video  Backup  System  is  a  mixture  of hardware and software that
enables  you  to  back up data onto a standard video tape.  The amount of
data  it  can  fit  on  to one tape depends on the length of tape and the
compression  method  you  use.   For  example on a four hour tape you can
expect to fit around 400 MB!

OK so how does it all work?
Simply install the software onto you Amiga and plug in the supplied leads
from  you  Amiga to your VCR.  Next boot the Video Backup System software
and  select  the  disks/files  etc  you  wish to backup and follow the on
screen prompts.  It really is that easy.

The  software  supplied  will  enable you to back up harddrives or floppy
disks,  it  even  keeps a log of all back ups, so it is easy to find that
file  or  disk  backup  at  a later date.  The disk logger section of the
software  is  a  real  life  saver.   Just  imagine  searching a 4hr tape
containing  over  300+  backed-up floppy disks for that required price of
software.  Well the disk logger will cut that search down and save you so
much time and pulling out of hair ;-) [CLICK FIG BUTTON]

With  extensive  tests I found this system to be very reliable and on the
occasion  where a fault did accrue it was discovered that the video i was
backing up to had a crease in the tape, ooops.

This  brings  us  to  reliability  of  the system.  Well the software can
hardly  go  wrong  and  nor can the hardware (1-2 cables).  The only real
problem  is  the  VCR  and the video cassette.  Make sure when using this
setup to use a pro-video cassette and also make sure the heads of the VCR
are clean.

The  only real niggle I have with the Video Backup System is the price of
it.   I would think very hard before buying it as the money may be better
spent  on a Tape Streamer or a Zip drive.  If the Video Backup System was
around  30-40  UK pounds then I would recommend it, but as is think twice
before you purchase.

Madness

END
===
