
                       Live'95 - The show report
                       =========================

Well,  just  got  back  from the show at Earls Court.  Not much there for
Amiga users I'm afraid :-(

The  only  Amigas  on  show  were at the Future Publishing stand.  Unlike
Amiga specific shows the stand was only there to sell FP's magazines - no
technical people or magazine writers to help you out.  In fact the A1200s
on  show were only old Commodore jobbies - one still had the original "C=
Commodore  A1200"  sticker  in the corner!  As far as "ESCOMs new Amigas"
go,  Future  Publishing  only  had the cardboard cover for the new "Amiga
Magic" pack :-(

The  actual  show  was packed but the queues were moving quickly.  Guides
were  given away free for a change but then, tickets were 8 quid!  Like a
mug  I  didn't bring any food with me - usual rip-off abounded, check out
these prices:

   Filled french bread sandwiches      3.20
   Drinks (small coke bottles)         1.20
   Booze (pint/half pint)              3.30/1.15
   Hot Dogs                            2.20
   Restaurant meals                     6.25 upwards

Bleeding  'eck,  wot  a cheek eh?  Best advice for ANY show is to bring a
few cans of coke/beer and your own pies, sandwiches and crisps!  Although
queues  were  brisk,  I still recommend buying tickets in advance just in
case.

Okay, so what else was there?  I'll have a quick run through the stands:

TV and Video Equipment
----------------------
Hmm,   nice   gear!   Loads  of  flashy  30"  TV  sets  -  usual  extras,
Picture-in-Picture, Dolby stereo etc.  All the sort of stuff you buy when
you  win  the Lottery!  One really interesting stand was Sanyo with their
3D  television  technology.  Two systems were on show, the standard specs
version  -  two  images with the usual left eye/right eye shutter system.
This  has  been  refined  a  bit  by Sanyo for their Widescreen TVs.  The
second  system  uses  LCD  screens  without  specs, it relies on each eye
seeing  the screen at slightly different angles.  The effect works but if
you  don't  view  it at just the right angle you'll end up with a serious
headache!

Fancy  camcorders  aplenty  were also on show.  Digital recording to tape
and  fancy  zooms and picture enhancements on the newest models.  Bit too
fancy for actual usage at the moment.

A  few  stands were showing off video equipment:  wipe and fade machines,
titlers etc.  again no Amiga mentions in this section :-(

Hi-fi gear
----------
Wow!   Really  KEWL  gear!!!   As  always,  nothing  I could afford.  The
serious  hi-fi  equipment is not so much a technological addition to your
living  room  but  an  artistic  statement  :-D Quick plug to my mates at
Richer  Sounds  -  they  were  the  only ones with anything affordable to
humans!   Advanced multispeaker sound systems seem the next big thing.  I
doubt  if  most people realised these things need setting up specifically
for  your  front  room;  you  need  to adjust em if you move the sofa two
inches!

Car Stuff
---------
Well,  more  heavy  duty shit here too.  There was an extra show for this
stuff  which  I  didn't  manage  to  see.  Mostly fancy sound systems and
alarms  for  when  you're  wondering what to do with all that boot space!
Some of these sound systems are worth as much as the car :-)

Music
-----
Capital  FM  were  there  with  a few live bands.  The usual grabbing and
fighting  ensued  when  Pat Sharp was giving stuff away or doing quizzes.
Some  music  stands  selling  records  etc.   to the serious punter but I
didn't see much in the way of instruments or synths.

Internet
--------
Service Providers were touting supposedly cheap connection:  Demon, Pipex
and  UK-Online.   Other  stands  had "surf the internet" sections such as
Novell  and  British Telecom.  All of course for PC/Windows and Mac users
:-( BT were showing off their new Wireplay network.  Again PC based, this
is for playing DOOM and flight sim type games head-to-head with anyone in
the  UK.   Currently  in the testing stage, Wireplay will be open for the
public next year.

Telephones and general comms
----------------------------
Well,  wadda ya know - special offers on mobile 'phones.  Wot a shock eh?
Usual bollox on how affordable it is to get connected.  Cellnet, Vodafone
and Orange were there, Mercury were strangely absent.  Manufacturers like
Nokia  had  some nice alternative 'phones:  designer patterns, styles and
colours - jazzy compared to the usual boring grey boxes.

Photography etc.
----------------
Nikon had a few compact SLR cameras and fancy binoculars but I didn't see
any digital cameras, saving pictures to disk :-(

Computers - not Amiga :-( and Tech stuff
----------------------------------------
Nintento,  Sega,  Sony, 3DO - all the big boys with the small boys games.
(Do you really want to know about them?)

Microsoft  and  Novell were the big software players with seminars, demos
and  mass  tuition  of Microsoft Office/Perfect Office.  Compaq and other
big PC manufacturers had a few stands...  who cares really?

And so...
---------
Well  plenty  to  see  and  do  if  you  don't mind being sucked into the
hi-tech,  no-brain  required  society  we  currently  live in.  Marketing
blitzes  abounded,  with  every few stands doing a compo if you just take
time  to  fill  in a questionnaire.  One stand gave away "Soviet" surplus
fur hats (cheap tat) if you answered a few questions.  Sanyo on the other
hand  wanted replies to 28 questions for a chance to with a holiday.  I'm
surprised they didn't want to know which hand I wanked with :-D

All  in all not a show really worth parting with 8 quid...  plus the 2.20
tube  fare  and,  least we forget, the outrageous food prices.  If you've
got  a  few grand kicking about, there weren't any serious special offers
to take advantage of.

Still, got to get out and about once in a while :-)

Cheerio m8ys,

 \|/
(O.o)
 \=/
Andy Pandy

END
===
