
                        Live 95: The Report

                             Defacto

Live95,  The  UK`S premier consumer electronics show held at Earls Court,
London.  Did it live up to the hype?.

Me and a couple of mates left for Live95, on Saturday 23rd September, and
decided  to  go  by  train,  as  parking space would be a bitch.  When we
arrived  we  were  greeted  by  the usual Earl`s Court building which was
dressed  up for the event with Live95 plastered all over it.  We went in,
through  the  ticket  holders entrance into the main hall.  There all the
usual people were there including Sony, MicroShit, BT, Kenwood, Panasonic
and all the other major companies.  Sony Again had the biggest stand, and
it  was  like like a city in there.  They had lasers beaming away massive
speakers pumping out the usual sony propaganda etc and they had all there
products  sorta  lined  up  there,  they looked kewl, especially the sony
ladies!.   It  took  me  about 30 mins to get out of the sony complex and
back  into  the  main  hall,  there  microshit  were showing there latest
operatiing  system  for the peecee, windoze95, and giving a short seminar
to  lamers  who thought this was the future for computers, yeah sure!.  I
tried  to go to a representative and ask for details about Win95 and then
started  to  get into Workbench vs Win95 etc, the people were lamers, and
gave  me  responses like, `No but it makes your computer faster` and `Now
you  can  be  more  productive  and  use  32bit  applications, a first in
computer history`.  At this point i was about to put the record straight,
but then i saw a nice looking woman dressed up a a demon, so i decided to
follow her ;).

I  eventually  ended  up at the demon internet place, and there stand was
sorta  like  in  a  corner and two ladies were `rapping` to promote demon
internet,  they weren't bad either!, the funny thing was across the floor
was  pipex`s stall which was promoting local call rates to 80% of the uk,
and  demon  were  there  proudly showing off 100% local call rates to the
UK!.  The Pipex stall actually allowed you to use the internet, but i don
think Demon did, shame really.

Next  i  checked  all  the  `super  consoles`  and played on all of them,
including  the  jaguar, i personally thought that the playstation was the
best,  even  though  the Saturn had slightly better sound.  In the corner
was  future publishing`s stall and they two new A1200`S there!, they were
only  two Amigas in the whole place and in a little corner!, these 1200`s
were  the  batch  from  AMiGA technologies, they has the AMiGA magic pack
there  and  proudly  showing  off,  `Seen for the first time in the uk` i
picked  up  a  Amigatech  leaflet  which was ok but not spectacular, they
somehow  managed  to  spell  `graphics` wrong and spelt it `grafic`, that
gives a good impression of the company doesn't it?.

Anyway  after  i  decided  to  and  just  browse  there  were many stalls
including  from  apple  some  lamer  was  trying to play a flight sim and
showing  off  the  graphical  abilities  of  a  mac as well all the usual
productivity stuff they have etc.  Again this stall had some nice looking
women.   I  carried  on and ended up at a BT stall were Micheala Strachan
from  the really wild show was there plugging live95/BT etc, she was on a
stage with some no-name dancing and getting the people in the audience to
dance  away to but i think she got blanked as no-one did!.  All the usual
radio stations were there capital/Kiss etc.  Capital radio london had Kim
Wilde  there  on there stage singing and dancing.  I then noticed a large
line  of men queuing up for something.  I got in the line too, and it was
page3  model  Michelle  Collins signing autographed posters for a company
called  tornado  that  does  car stereo speakers, and the usual stuff.  i
managed to get a poster off her and got it signed, she looked kewl!.

Eventually  i  got to see all the `MultiMedia` Peecee`s etc and they just
basically peecee`s that had a ridiculous amount of hardware stuffed in em
to  show  what  a  peecee can do!  yeah right with about a million pounds
worth of cards, peripherals etc.

Anyway  about  this  time i got bored and decided to fuck off home, i had
all  the  usual  leaflets and stuff from everyone the only thing i didn't
get was the microshit bag which being handed out to everyone at the start
of the exhibition, i decided to go upmarket with my sony bag.

Was  8  pounds  really worth it?, well if your into hype yeah maybe, with
the  internet and peecees and new audio equipment etc, yeah its good, but
i recommend you try and get a discount cause its not worth 8 quid, i went
for  5  quid cause i had a discount voucher!, for 5 quid i cant complain.
I personally think the women looked much better than the hardware!.

END
===
