
           ESCOM They don't even endorse there own product!

             MiGGYBYTE Exclusive by Sigma Alpha/Defacto


One  afternoon 25/9/95 me and Sigma were chatting away on the phone as he
wanted  to  buy  a Escom modem, he then told me the rumour that the amiga
was  appearing in Escom shops, so we had an idea why not phone every shop
up  and  ask  them about Amigas and try to get info, we were horrified to
say the least!, we eventually got round to phoning up every Escom Shop in
the Greater London area and here are our results:

The  Question  we  asked  was:   Hello  i want a Multimedia, Multitasking
Machine  for  Video, Productivity and Games, i heard that the Amiga range
was  suited well for these applications and Escom had plans to stock them
in there shops what do you think i should get?.


ACTON: Please hold...Yes hello, the nearest thing to your requirements is
       a 386 this is a around 500 and does not multitask without Win95.

            (Come on!, 386 you CANT run Win95 on it!, and a 386!)

BRIXTON: Hold on please .. Sorry Amigas never heard of them?, Would you
         like a IBM PC compatible.

            (Ok the employee might not know Amigas...)

BROMLEY: I cant tell you sorry, i am a new member of staff so i cant
         advise you. Try calling back after 4.30

            (Ok accepted cant argue there.. Didn't bother calling back)

COLINDALE: We will be selling Amigas in the near future, but i would
           advise you to spend a little more money so that you can
           upgrade your machine when required. For this i would recommend
           a 486.

            (What do you `upgrade` your machine? Lamer, so you cant
             upgrade your Amiga, you will need to upgrade your PC tho`)


DAGENHAM: I`m sorry i have never heard of that machine, where did you
          hear about this machine?

            (Well i heard about this machine from a ESCOM press release,
             not to mention Babylon5, SeaquestDSv, StarTrek:TNG, etc)


EAST HAM: Yes i would advise you to get an Amiga, I am a big fan of them
          and they are far cheaper than PC`S and there is no need for
          upgrading every time that you wish to use it for a different
          application. We should have them in stock in the next month.
          I have one at home and there is nothing i have ever wanted it
          couldn't do that it could not, i strongly recommend this for
          your requirements

                (That's what we need some positive action! YIPEE!)



CHINGFORD: Amiga, Anything Better than Amiga!.

              (Yeah right!, lamer!)

FULHAM: Pentium much better build quality!

   (What do you mean build quality! fucking plastic is plastic)

GREENFORD: Erm Pentium is better, than AMIGA 4000, get it instead

HARROW: Yeah amiga is good for video, you`ll need expensive equipment to
        match it on PC, but a PC will then be better.

           (Nice response not bad could be better tho`)

ISLINGTON: Unfortunately Engaged Phone line

LEWISHAM: Get a TV card and it`ll kick up the Amiga, Amiga is rubbish

           (Man is this guy talking outta his arse or what?)

KINGSTON: Amiga, Never heard of it

          (oh my god!, too lame to even comment!)

MILE END: Get a P60 you get a Gig HD and its got More mem therefore
          its much more powerful and faster and better.

          (Yeah sure, its got more ram cause its need it to load stuff
           like mouse drivers and bollox like windoze95!)

PADDINGTON: Engaged phone line

SOUTHWARK: Well erm....<long pause> Come in and have a look

            (I don't think he even knows what he is selling!)

STREATHAM: Well everyone working on PC and theres not Much software on
           Amiga so i would get a PC, and we actually don't do Amiga

        (Not much software? eh? thats why superskidmarks2 sold more
        than any other software for any other machine when it came
        out, Wordworth 4 is due, Lightwave is still BETTER on the Amiga!)

TOOTING: Well i think we make em <Amigas> but don't sell em, get a PC

           (Probably doesn't know anything, ok allow it)

EALING: Next month getting Amigas, but not very good, spend more
        and get a PC,

    (I told him the specs, and he didn't know what i was talking about!)

WOODGREEN: Amigas out of business not around any more, no one bought the
           company went bust because the computer wasn't very good!

            (SILLY FOOL!, doesn't even know that Escom have the amiga!)
             and as for being crap, get your facts right!

WOOLWICH: Software runs slowly on it cause its only 16bit!

           (16BIT!, yeah that was the A500, there are new machines
            you know!)

As  you  can  see only EAST HAM were good in helping us out though HARROW
weren't  too  bad either, you`d think that a big company like Escom would
send  some  info  to its employees and advise them about the situation so
they could answer questions etc.

I  don't  see  how  Escom  will  market the Amiga in their shops if their
employees don't even know what they can do!, a training program should be
in place to advise and instruct the employees etc.

NOTE:  The staff at these shops may not have been briefed fully about the
Amiga  situation  so you have to take this into account, but as the Amiga
takeover  has  been in the public light, logically the employees at Escom
should know.


END
===
