-+- Quick Guide To File Extensions v1.0 -+-
-+- By Mark Klocek -+-

Introduction
------------
Files  are  often  named in different ways to help tell us what they are.
Often  file extensions are used, these are little names after the name of
the  file.   For  example  this  file was called FileExtensions.doc - The
first  part  before  the  full stop is the name of the file and after the
full stop is what type of file it is.
    File  extensions  are  used  widely  in  the computer world so we can
quickly  tell what type of data is contained in a file.  They are usually
short about 3 letters though 5 letters occurs occasionally.
    There  are  almost  certainly a load missing, so mail me on Channel X
BBS and it will be updated.

List of file extensions
-----------------------
Below is a list of file extensions with descriptions of what type of data
they (usually) represent.  They may be in capitals or lower case letters,
there is no difference (in case you didn't know).

.8svx     - Represents a sound. Extension may be left out because this
            data type is so common.
.anim     - Represents the Amiga's animation format. May be left out
            because its so common.
.amos     - Represents the source code of an Amos program.
.arc      - Represents a group of files archived with Arc.
.arj      - Represents a group of files archived with Arj.
.asm      - Represents assembler source code.
.b        - Source code for an Ace program.
.basic    - Source code for an Amiga basic program.
.bkup     - Represents a backup of a data type. This varies.
.bmp      - Represents a picture type mainly used on the PC.
.c        - Represents the source code for a C program.
.config   - Represents a file which is used as preferences for a
            corresponding program.
.device   - Represents a file which is used to control a disk drive,
            parallel port or anything else which is sent information by
            the computer
.doc      - Represents a text file, usually a manual to some program.
.dms      - Represents a file which has a whole disk contained in it.
.e        - Source code for an E program.
.font     - Represents a font file (types of lettering).
.gif      - Represents a GIF picture file.
.guide    - Represents an Amiga guide hypertext/multimedia document.
.info     - Represents an Amiga icon.
.iff      - Represents an Amiga IFF picture format. This extension may
            sometimes be left out because this file type is very common.
.isrx     - An Arexx script for use with the Amiga shareware image
            processor Image Studio.
.his      - See .history \/ \/
.history  - Represents a text file giving the history of development of
            a program.
.jpg      - See .jpeg \/ \/
.jpeg     - A highly compressed picture format for many computers. It
            only works well with pictures that have many colours.
.keyfile  - Shows that the file is a keyfile for a registered shareware
            product.
.lha      - Represents a number of files which have been placed together
            (archived) and made smaller (compressed) by using the program
            called Lha.
.library  - Represents libraries which some programs use to save disk
            space.
.lzh      - Represents a number of files which have been archived by 
            using Lha, possibly one of the early versions, but that is
            not always the case.
.lzx      - A group of files which have been archived by Lzx.
.macro    - A script file for a program.
.man      - Represents a text file manual for a program.
.mod      - Represents a music file for use with a music player or it
            can be a source code for an Oberon or Mod-2 program.
.pic      - Represents a picture probably in ILBM format. This may be 
            left out due to this file type's commonness.
.pcx      - Another picture format mainly used on the PC.
.pp       - Represents a power packed file (a file which has been made
            smaller). This may often be left out because most programs
            recognise this file type instantly. These files can be
            packed versions of anything from text to pictures.
.prefs    - Represents a file which is used for its preferences for a
            corresponding program.
.qwk      - Represents a Qwk mail packet.
.q??      - Note the question marks are a number. This also represents
            a qwk mail packet.
.readme   - Represents a text file which should be read (Nah your 
            kidding!).
.rep      - Represents a reply packet for qwk mail.
.rexx     - Represents the source code of an Arexx program.
.script   - Represents an Amiga DOS script file, the startup-sequence is
            also a script file.
.snd      - Shows a sound sample.
.txt      - Represents a text file, this extension sometimes may not be
            present because text files are so common.
.wav      - Shows a sound sample which is a popular format on the PC.
.xpk      - Shows a compressed file, made so by an XPK library.
.zip      - Represents a number of files which have been placed together
            (archived) and made smaller (compressed). Far more common on
            the PC than the Amiga.

END
===
