
                            Dear Suki

                      By BG from Midlands Area

Dear Suki, I have really have a problem.  It all started a year ago i got
into  a  famous  uni  near  the Midlands and started my BSC degree<Course
Witheld>.   I  started off really badly and needed help from my tutor who
was  from  America.   I used to go and seek assistance from her during my
free  time and gradually i got better in my course (i will not reveal was
course i am doing as i can be traced like that).

Anyway one day she told me too meet her in the canteen as she was out for
lunch,  i met her there, and she really felt like having a pizza down the
local  pizza  place.  There we ordered our food and drinks, afterwards we
went to the local pub and both of us got stoned then she insisted that we
discuss  my  problem at her place, Thats when we had our first `embrace`.
After we sobered up we releasded what we had done and i promptly left.  I
avoided  her for a few days.  After about 2 weeks i decided to talk, then
it became aparent that the `embrace` had feeling for us, and that we were
in  love.   (Note  the  pizza  place we went to, my girlfriends, friends,
Boyfriend  worked  there  but  i  didn`t  know about this until i met him
later, when it was too late)

Eventually  my  girlfriend started to get suspicous after she went to the
local  pizza  place  we went to and spoke to <name withheld> who she knew
well  and  he  told  her  about  us.   She  was  not amused and dumped me
straight.   But  she didnt stop there.  My (so called) freinds found out,
and  they  started  to  post  private messages on the internal network of
computers  in  the  uni and eventually she got wind of it and came to me.
The  Dean  of  the  uni found out too and called us both in we denied the
accusations,  said  that she would lose her job and he make sure that she
would  never get another job again.  She denied it again.  We were forced
to see less of each other.

Now my course is nearly over and i`m asking her too leave with me but she
is  too scared that her career will be ruined, plus i think she is up the
spout  and  i  think she is it from hiding me.  Please help.  I dont know
what to do especially as my parents dont know about this.

I am 22 now and she is 27

<NOTE> miggybyte has changed certain parts of the above letter to protect
the parties involved.


Dear BG,

The  first thing you need to do is to find out for certain whether or not
your  tutor  is pregnant or not.  If she is then it's imperative that she
gets  expert  medical  attention.  Of course if she is pregnant, then you
are  going to need to do a lot of talking.  She may be hiding it from you
at  the  moment because she is unsure of your reaction.  Be as supportive
as  you can, as she'll need help deciding whether or not to go ahead with
the pregnancy.

Now that your course is nearly over I can see no reason why you shouldn't
continue with your relationship.  It needn't affect her career adversely;
surely there are other universities she could transfer to if she wants to
be  with  you?   This is the main issue you need to discuss - whether you
both  see a future in this relationship or not.  Does she want to be with
you,  or  is  the  fear of ruining her career merely a convenient opt-out
clause?  Now that you are no longer in the tutor/pupil relationship there
should  be nothing preventing you both from making a go of things, if you
both want to.

If  she  does  turn  out  to be pregnant, and she does decide to keep the
baby,  then  your  parents  are  going  to have to know eventually.  It's
probably  best  to  tell them sooner rather than later.  Once they've got
over the initial shock they may turn out to be very supportive - stranger
things  have happened.  You have to work out what you want, as well.  Are
you  prepared  to  take on a baby at 22?  It's only fair to discuss these
things with her, then you both know where you stand.

Do let me know how things work out,

Suki

END
===
