
                           Dear Suki

                         Sent by Anon

Dear Suki

I am a man aged 29 years old and i am heavily into comms, I got married 2
years  ago and me and my wife have had no problems so far Until i started
to  use  my computer more often on BBS`s etc She decided one day to `try`
out  bbs`s  herself and got addicted like i am.  She used to logon when i
am  at  work  and  logged on to many BBS`s around the UK.  She eventually
logged  onto one or two BBS`s that i was logged onto and recongised me my
handle.  She eventually got access to restricted areas of these bbs`s and
they had some form of pornography on them.  She also noticed that most of
the  uploads  were  done by me!.  She then approached me and asked what i
was  upto?,  i  told  her  the  truth that i found the bbs by mistake and
started  to  donwload  the  pics  and  found them fascinating, and really
wanted  to  try  some  of the stuff in em and was to scared to ask her in
case  she  was offended.  She agreed to participate in some activites and
we  decided  for  `a laugh` we`d do our own collection.  We got our video
camera and filmed ourselves whilst Participating.

I  eventually  digitized  these and put them on the hardrive.  I archived
the  collection  to save space.  This is were the trouble started i think
during  a  batch  upload  i  mistakenly uploaded to archive to at least 8
bbs`s.  I didn`t realise it until oneday she downloaded them from another
BBS!!!!.   She  was *FUMING* and nearly killed me, she slapped me and hit
me  and  generally i got cursed etc.  I tried to tell her it was a simple
mistake  but  she doesnt listen to me i dont know what to do.  I`ve tried
telling a sysop to delete the pics, but they`ve spread too much.  No shes
theataning  to  divorce me, and i love her, i really need help i`ve tried
everything to make it up with her but she refuses, she know living at her
friends house.  Please help

Anon


Dear Anon,

Here's  a  warning to us all - never digitise and install on hardrive any
pictures you don't want to run the risk of falling into the wrong hands!

The  best  thing  you can do now is to keep telling her how sorry you are
and  hope  that eventually she calms down.  The problem is that she feels
that  you've  abused her trust.  Any sort of "erotic photography" between
consenting partners can only be done when there is explicit trust between
the parties involved.  You trust your partner not to show pictures of you
in  revealing  poses  to  all  and  sundry.   I  know  what  you  did was
accidental, but her feelings have been hurt just the same.

Hopefully  she  will listen to you eventually - maybe one day she'll even
find  it  funny  or flattering that so many people wanted to download her
image!   Perhaps  you  could  find  an  embarrassing,  revealing photo of
yourself, have it photocopied, and pin it up all over town, with the word
"Sorry" printed across it.  It might help to redress the balance and give
her a good laugh too.

In the meantime, make sure you ask the sysops of any boards where you see
her pictures to delete them, and carry on grovelling!

And  in  future  make  sure  you keep your erotic works of art where they
belong - in private!

Suki

END
===
