

                   MIGGYBYTE`S METAL MUSIC MAYHEM!
                   -------------------------------

Ah,  for  all you rock metal lovers Miggybyte mag has a section dedicated
to  you.   The structure is simple, you get the loads of albums reviewed,
old and new, latest goss, discussion area, tour and festival news.


REVIEW
------
The  album  reviewed in this issue, is the new FEAR FACTORY album, called
DEMANUFACTURE.   It consists of 11 songs of the album, and 3 bonus tracks
(CD  VERSION).  If you've heard there first album, SOUL OF A NEW MACHINE,
you  may have realized that it's quite good, with a few decent songs, BUT
repetitive.   The vocal in the first album has a graowly/deathly sound to
it.   Comparing  the  new  album  to  the  first one, DEMANUFACTURE in my
opinion  is  excellent.   Its more up to date, much better vocaling, they
have moved away from the cliche death sound to an aggressive mouthpiece.
 The  first track on the album is Demanufacture.  The song starts of with
a  sampled  drum  beat,  intermingled  by background effects of pieces on
metal  clanging together.  Then suddenly, a headsmashing, awesome riff on
the  guitars  strikes  ya.   Gradually the guitars and sampled drums mesh
together, as a low tone vocal speaks out:

   Desenitized by the values of life
   Maligned and despaitred by government lies

And  then  a  second  tone of vocal, which is much heavier and aggressive
ripps the next stanza.  The two sets of vocals alternate with each other,
while the music is still pumping heavy `n' hard.

Most  of  the  songs  on the album, are heavy, so indie freaks stay away.
Most of the songs on the album are influenced by a lot of sampling.

The  album  is mainly concerned with how society is today, and how people
are  treated  by  the snobs of the society.  For example there is a track
called  NEW  BREED, and like we are the new breed of people, we have more
control  of life and usually rebel against stuff we don't agree with.  To
generalize it, it's about our stance in life.


   If you like stuff like, Machine Head, Life of Agony,
  I recommend you get this. Remember its sampled.




For next issues review, I can review one from the following:

 OFFSPRING-SMASH,       NINE INCH NAILS-DOWNWARD SPIRAL,
 WHITE ZOMBIE-ASTRO CREEP 2000, OR PANTERA-FAR BEYOND DRIVRN.

  the choice is yours, just write in and tell us.




DISCUSSION AREA
----------------

The  other  day  my  friend  put  it  to  me that, if Metallica were less
commercial,  and  slightly  underground,  therefore  less restrictions to
there music, that they would be a better band.

 What do you think???

 Write in and your argument will be printed in the next issue.


FESTIVAL
--------

   Anyone go to Donington rock festival?
   what did you think. Write in!!!




GOSS
----

 Trent Reznor shagged Courtney Love.

Phil  Anselmo of Pantera, is doing a side project with a member of C.O.C,
and two other blokes.


Well  that's  if  for  moi,  if  you  would like to contribute to this in
anyway, write in.  If not write in to tell us what you think!!

Laters  from  Imran.   Keep  kicking shite.  Mind you don't get it on yer
boot.

END
===
