--------- START OF FORWARDED MESSAGE ---------

From System ....: Internet
From Conference : comp.sys.amiga.misc
MessageID ......: <331e3f6f.595852861@news.jersey.net>
Originally from : Dave Haynie <dhaynie@jersey.net>
Subject ........: Re: Amiga vs. PC - Stop whining!

On 28 Feb 97 01:03:13 -0500, Victor Ducedre <victord@netrover.com>
wrote:

>>The C= 64 people said the same thing: "Our computer will never die, as
>>long as there are people out there supporting it - it will never die".
>>It didn't last long though..

>     You may wish to check with people still using C64's, who also currently
>enjoy fast CPU's, high-speed modems, hard-drive storage and internet
>applications.  Dead platforms don't usually get so much hardware/software
>development.

The C64 is easily a unique case. It is still the most popular single
computer ever made, and it's very likely to always hold that title,
simply because no computer lasts that long anymore. With an installed
base of 25 million or so units, it's hard to kill such a thing off. In
market terms, the machine itself is dead -- no more will ever be made.
But that doesn't mean the market is dead. With so much C64 hardware
around, you can find a C64 if you want one.

And the emulations today are prefect. You can run several completely
functional C64s at once on a modern computer. And sure, I realize good
emulations run on lots of platforms, my previous crack about "get a
PC" for C64 use was meant to echo the "get a PC" you hear all the time
for "being standard". 

If I were going to teach an introductory course in computer
hardware/firmware at the High School or maybe Freshman college level,
I would use the C64 -- it's a well documented chunk of hardware, you
can run it virtually on your platform of choice, those emulators
contain all kinds of cracking, er, debugging/monitoring tools, etc.
And you can learn the whole machine fairly fast -- one of the main
reasons the C64 was popular among hackers was just that. Try and learn
everything about the PC, or much less the Amiga, in six months. 
And incidently, I think the AmigaOS would be prefect for a course in
operating systems. It does most of the things right, in a modern way,
and it doesn't tie the hands of the programmer. And, of course, it
runs now on practically any computer. 

>>I didn't say that MS didn't invent the functions in their 'own' OS, so
>>what's your point? You don't like Windows because it stole some ideas
>>from other OS (and who knows, maybe even AmigaOS)?
>
>     It only becomes objectionable because MS tends to attach its own buzzword
>to a concept and, by not acknowledging its origins, appears to pass it off as
>their own idea.  (To be fair, MS is not the only company with this behaviour.)

They clearly learned this from IBM, who did it for years. But it's a
fairly well established idea that you don't acknowledge those that you
don't consider real competition -- acknowledging a competitior is
stamping the ability to compete on them. So back in the late 80s, you
would see Atari ads telling you an ST was better than an Amiga or a
Mac. You would not see the Amiga or the ST mentioned in Apple's ads.
If Commodore actually paid for an ad, they might mention the Mac, they
wouldn't mention the Atari. 

>      Actually, I'm hard pressed to think of any major element of Windows that
>didn't come from some other platform, including the WIMP GUI itself...

Microsoft never one a single installation through technical
excellence. They have done a good job of leveraging other folks good
ideas into Windows, even though some of them (objects, for instance)
arrive somewhat broken. But their marketing continues to be good, the
competition continues to flounder, and it's not getting any better,
yet. MS is at the point IBM once was, in the old "no one ever got
fired for buying IBM" days. They're the default, you need to prove
that something else is workable, not that anything's wrong with MS. 

>>>A computer for everybody is NOT a professional computer, spesialy not
>>>with a totaly useless OS like WIN95.

>>That is not what I said either. I said it was easier for the novice to
>>get started with the PC. That may not be because the OS is better, but
>>it is better supported.

>     In what ways do you feel there is better support for the OS, and how does
>that translate to "easier for the novice"?

Make no mistakes about it: Windows 95 was not designed as a
"professional OS", it was designed for home users. The home market
emerged as the big thing over the last five years. This is why you see
the stupid Microsoft and Intel ads on TV. This is why the Pentium Bug
was such big news, and why MMX is going to be a hit, even though it's
fairly silly for most applications, and virtually useless for the
typical business user. 

Windows being better supported helps in some cases. It means you can
drive 5-10 miles to Computer City or 30 other stores and buy a PClone.
If you have problems, you can ask the nearly clueless salesperson. and
there's at least some chance that salesperson will know the answer. If
not, maybe their technician does. If not, you can find 1,000 people on
the internet, or 30 other local computer stores, or 5 local user
groups, etc. That's the way it is, like it or not.

Apple always had the right strategy here, if not always the right
implementation. Amiga had part of this too -- if your system is smart
enough to avoid the question, it doesn't matter how well it's
supported at the computer store, since the customer is fat and happy
at home, getting real work done, playing the game, and probably
oblivious to the problems PC folk have. This is one big reason
manufacturers want to sell you an all-in-one PC. Some of these modern
consumer-oriented PClones are expandable only in the loosest sense of
the word -- out of the box, they consume most or all of the expansion
resources that are limited in a PC (DMAs and IRQs), even if there are
free slots.

>>Is there on-line help for the OS in 3.1? Nope.
>
>     Is there anything in AmigaOS that is so difficult to use and understand
>that online help is necessary?

Sure -- I get 100+ emails a day, many are "This doesn't work"
questions. But compared to Windows, the AmigaOS is smart, and even
when something goes wrong, it's fairly easy to find the problem. And
yet, customers still want a place to go for answers, even if just for
the warm fuzzies they get from knowning a problem might easily be
solved. Today, of course, much of this can be coordinated via the Web.


>>And what is the Amiga then? 5-year old technology... :)

>     Mostly older than that... :)

We did the last major high-end work in 1989 and 1990. The cheap '040
board was done in 1992, and AA was done in 1991. The time between then
and The End was split between "polictical delays" and "stuff you'll
never really see"...

Dave Haynie      V.P. Hardware Engineering    PIOS Computer
haynie@pios.de     "...no RISC, no fun"

---------- END OF FORWARDED MESSAGE ----------

