--------- START OF FORWARDED MESSAGE ---------

From System ....: Internet
From Conference : comp.sys.amiga.misc
MessageID ......: <5gmrh0$mn1@flood.xnet.com>
Originally from : Jason Compton <jcompton@typhoon.xnet.com>
Subject ........: Gateway IRC: Sorry, everyone...

Grrr.

I just wanted to apologize to everyone for not being able to make it to my
own scheduled IRC conferences on Saturday and Sunday.

The hotel wasn't as cooperative as we'd expected and they were unwilling
to get a standard phone line to our planned conference area.  I was able
to get online thanks to some users on the sixth floor, but that wasn't
exactly the environment we'd planned.  We wanted to have guests from the
show at a show floor area, complete with LCD projector so people at the
show could follow what was going on.

Sunday was similarly bad.  We managed to secure a room Amiga Atlanta had
been using for videotape interviews, but once THAT was done, getting an
ISP account configured and working (even using Miami, even with Holger
Kruse at the show, no less!) was a bit of a challenge, and once that was
done the fates REALLY started conspiring against me--like scores of IRC
servers rejecting our connection, ISP core dumps, and of course the
finishing touch was when I retreated to the same sixth floor room, AmIRC
timed out on me a few minutes later.  A great many premature hairs were
shed from my head that weekend!

However, from the little bit I saw and the news I've heard since then, it
sounds like it wasn't a total wash since over 150 of you got together with
an organized moderation and got some productive talking done, so I'm glad
you got that out of it.  I'll take a look at the transcripts.

The bottom line is that the next time we try something like this, we'll be
sure that everything works way in advance.  This was also the first show I
was an actual exhibitor at (for Amiga Legacy, the new videotape magazine
we're working on), and with a scant 11 hours of show time, it was tough to
try to get these conferences up and running.

Once again, my apologies for falling short of the mark.  (The show was
quite a bit of fun, online hassles aside, though!)

-- 
Jason Compton                                  jcompton@xnet.com
Editor-in-Chief, Amiga Report Magazine         (847) 741-0689 FAX
AR--http://www.cucug.org/ar/   
Legacy--http://www.xnet.com/~jcompton/legacy.html

---------- END OF FORWARDED MESSAGE ----------

