--------- START OF FORWARDED MESSAGE ---------

From System ....: Internet
From Conference : comp.sys.amiga.misc
MessageID ......: <33168558.89461238@hermes.jersey.net>
Originally from : Dave Haynie <dhaynie@jersey.net>
Subject ........: Re: A/BOX and Operating systems

On Thu, 27 Feb 1997 09:52:20 +0100, Pieter-Jan Kuyten
<Kuyten_PJA@cft.philips.nl> wrote:

>Gareth Young wrote:
>> 
>> On Tue, 25 Feb 97, George Noel wrote:

>What Phase 5 has actually said, is that they will be running a
>MicroKernal on Unix basis (since there are many of these which have been
>honed over a period of time) and that on top of that they will run
>AmigaOS. 

That's a reasonable statement, simply because, you don't build an
Amiga compatible OS in one year. If Phase 5 must do their own OS, they
need to use existing pieces, or it won't be done by "4Q97", or
whatever the latest date is. The problem is a simple one: UNIX type
operating systems are very unlike AmigaOS at the core, and you're
going to have to spend lots of time to tweak a UNIX kernel, micro or
macro, up to the level of the AmigaOS, for what the AmigaOS does well.
And just to get it out in the open, I have lots of respect for UNIX,
I'm happy to say that PIOS will offer a Linux port for the PIOS One,
but I don't personally favor UNIX's design decisions. 

But hey, if we didn't think choice was important, none of us would be
here, we'd all be fat and happy with Wintel machines. So really, I'm
glad you're all here, even those that think I'm an asshole. 

>They also claim that their system will be binairy compatible to
>the current AmigaOS (3.1).

That only happens via emulation. You get the base level for emulation
in UAE, which runs everywhere. It's possible to do better, but how
much better you really want to do is an open question. For example, if
you write a new OS on the PPC to be perfectly structure compatible
with AmigaOS, you're bastardizing your PPC performance. Apple did this
in places (they had to change the compiler, naturallly PPC compilers
won't do 68K-friendly structure packing). I had an emulator
architecture, probably described it here once or twice, that bypasses
this, but still delivers some PPC-level performance. Others would
maybe go the Windows route, with a similar but updated data layout,
and "thunk" code to create the 68K to PPC interface. 

>They can not make AmigaOS for the A\Box, simply because they haven't got
>the source code for this. Neither could PIOS (hence their deal with
>ProDAD for pOS).

PIOS could have done an AmigaOS clone. Obviously, we have the "in"
with ex-Amiga people, we knew the software better than anyone else.
Now, first off, that would pretty much disqualify anyone involved,
legally, since you can't work on an AmigaOS clone if you've seen any
AmigaOS source code, or the lawyers will fry your bacon up like
nobody's business. But the second factor is that, from scratch, it's a
3-5 year job. We wanted to ship in less than a year. 

Then there's the reality of the industry. No one left is big enough,
as a systems vendor, to make a new OS successful. It might be the case
that, if everyone gets down and dirty with one OS, good things will
happen and the platform, thus defined, can survive. We wanted THE
AmigaOS, of course. That not being an option, Pro-DAD seemed to have
the only Amiga-like OS in the game. They had the advantage of starting
years before.
 
>The only one who at this time can upgrade AOS is the liquidator. 

Even he can't, he doesn't have a budget. 

>Let's face it, unless someone buys the rights to the Amiga, nobody can
>claim to make a "new" Amiga. 

At this point, "Amiga" is a trademark, nothing more. Legally, someone
getting the Amiga rights can build a new computer and call it an
Amiga. But bottom line, the Amiga was what it was because of the
individuals who made it that way. Most of them are doing other things
now, and probably will continue to do so. Unless the new owners manage
to get a bunch of these folks together, a new Amiga is that only in
name.

But there are lots of ideas and ideals in the Amiga we all know and
love. I hope everyone associted with it, now or in the past, takes a
piece of that with them, it can only help improve the computer
business. Some of us try to stick it out. I've been enchanted with the
idea of a personal computer since I first hacked around with my friend
Scott's PET 2001. That was like 1977, I had been programming something
since '73, but this thing was amazing. It was all mine to play with
(nobody else spoke BASIC yet). No 300 baud modems, no thermal paper to
run out, graphics, etc. It rocked like nothing else. 

The Wintel platform made that kind of thing available to lots of
people, but in the same stroke it cut way back on what's possible. The
Amiga was the best example of what's possible. That was at many
levels: multitasking, smart hardware, machines regular people could
afford, user-oriented OS design, even the mythology of it, something
the industry hadn't seen since the Apple II (another system I hold in
high regard, for what it was and what it meant). 

>And even then, if they create a new
>machine, how will it be an Amiga, if they change almost everything
>inside the machine.

We did that in the A3000, and in the A1200, but still, it was an
Amiga. You do it when you add that A4091 and Cybergraphics card and
sound card, '060 board, etc. But it remains undeniably an Amiga, even
if only about 10% of the orginal hardware gets any use. Like I said,
it's a idea, a gestalt, not just a box full of sand. 

>The PIOS route has a its major danger, that we will have this wonderfull
>PCI machine, but we can't use any of the industry PCI cards, because by
>the time someone has written a driver for them, they have been replaced
>by a newer (but totally) different card, where driver development must
>be restarted from scratch. 

And yet, it's way better than today's situation, where you have to
wait for someone to put that PCI chip on a Zorro III card first, then
write the drives for it. There's no reason to have a driver for every
card on the market. PIOS will definitely support cards we feel
important. User feedback will be an important part of this, too. 

>This is what happens in the PC world quite
>often, where cards are obsololete within 1 year. Todays wonder card is
>tomorrows faded glory.

That's true, but they're also learning that you keep the software
interface the same, when there's no reason to change it. So going from
the last Cirrus Logic chip to the next is simple, little changes far
as the software is concerned. Same with S3, probably many of the
others. What they're doing here, really, is reinventing the way CPUs
are supported. You don't dump the whole instruction set with every
rev, you tweak this, tweak that. Or you redesign from scratch. If
there's a good reason to change things drastically, it should be done.
If not, stay pretty compatible. Some code needs to be changed, but the
rest doesn't, and the whole idea of the chip, the basic way of doing
things, is the same. 

>The Quikpak route has a danger of pushing us onto the same sort of route
>as we have seen on the PC before the introduction of PCI. You know,
>making the processor blisteringly fast, while the rest of the system is
>still not able to deal with that kind of raw power.

The real problem with the Alphas is that, right now, they're expensive
for the performance offered, even if they can get more out of a chip
than most others. Cheaper systems come later this year, but we're
still not talking about $50 CPUs. And the OS is Windows NT, plain and
simple. I doubt anyone has much of a chance of dislodging that in the
Alpha market. Or selling an AmigaOS to an exclusively high-end market.


>Again you are misquoting P5. They said they were determined to use the
>workstations of SGI as a model and checkmark for their system as far as
>performance and design was concerned and not PC's. That's probably a
>stab at PIOS for their PC clone type design of the PIOS One (you know, a
>generic plug in box).

Simply using standard parts does not necessarily make you "generic".
All meals are made from standard parts, but you'd gag if I mixed them
up, someone else might give you bliss with the same raw materials.
Sure, maybe growing your own crops lets you do even better, maybe not.
Depends on your faming skills. 

>> PV have created the A\Box, making numerous claims and nice reports to Amiga
>> magazines, claiming on how it is the "next Amiga" (The magazines probably
>> toned this down from the next/second coming.).  They say they use the
>> custom chip idea, that it will have "dynamic" chip ram, etc.  
>
>And so they should. 

They have less moral ground to be claiming "next Amiga" than PIOS
does, and yet, we're not, because that's simply wrong for anyone to
claim at this point. It's ultimately something only The New Owners, or
The Marketplace, can proclaim. 

>> This sounds absoloutly nothing like the Amiga.
>
>I had the same feeling with the AGA machines, or the plans for AAA and
>Hombre. You do realise that if Commodore had lived and they had been
>able to get machines based on these system architectures on the market,
>that they too wouldn't have been Amiga compatible? At least not in
>hardware.

AA was Amiga compatible, as much as possible given the improvements.
AAA was, at least in the 32-bit systems, as Amiga compatible as
possible in an advanced architecture. You can't do both -- just the
fast that busy graphic modes don't slow the chip bus down in a VRAM
based AAA system is a compatibility hit -- some program will depend on
that. 

The real point is that, even as AAA was being designed, the defintiion
of "Amiga compatible" was transitioning from hardware to software, as
it should have been from the beginning. Like AAA, that wasn't
finished, but they was the goal at the time of the AAA introduction.
Only Commodore could have made a change in this definition in such a
blanket way, and really, the market had the final say. AAA in 1990, at
least, would have had the market rallying behind Commodore. In 1994,
it would have been good for the Amiga, sure, but way less interesting.


>The only thing they would have shared with their predecesors would have
>been the OS. 

The OS is 99% of what make an Amiga an Amiga. Any hardware guy who
knows what they're doing understands this. 

	"It's the software, stupid" -Joe Palmer

>Which would have needed an upgrade. And seeing as with each
>upgrade of the OS (1.0 -> 1.1 -> 1.2 -> 1.3 -> 2.0 -> 2.1 -> 3.0 -> 3.1)
>we lost plenty of applications to incompatibilities (usually of the app,
>not the OS), developers would have been forced to rewrite their apps. 

Break a rule, you pay. Apple was far nastier than C= about this, they
broke more stuff, and as a result, they grew while C=- was dying,
since they could adapt fast to hardware advances. Microsoft's nastier
still. They can afford to be, and ultimately, it's the right decision.


The software folks had a saying: if it can break, it should break. If
something was done wrong, sorry, fix it. That was rarely possible in
practice, simply because some applications were too important to
break., But you san see the problem here: as the OS has to bend and
twist to support buggy code, it's damaged. It's harder to make an
update, it's harder to compete with those OSs that don't coddle to bad
programmers. As long as they were warned in advanced, I would have not
been so kind (look at the 2.0 vs. 2.04 releases for an example of the
lengths C= went to support bad code). 

>Change will happen. It would have under Escom, Commodore or VISCorp
>(Trust the corps, the corp's your friend).

Corps is mother, corps is father. Of course things would have changes,
but as an industry direction. There's no possible leadership in the
Amiga industry without The New Owners right now. I've had a proposal
for an industry council to surplant this (no, I don't expect to be on
it, it's inherently a collective effort), we'll see how that goes. 

>So get out of your ivory tower and stare reality in the face.

Thus, the PIOS One. Dream all you want about cool custom chips. You
don't design, develop, and debug them in six months, especially
without a chip group. And even at that, you need someone like Jay
Minor or Ed Hepler to set a profound architectural direction, or
you're just reinventing wheels you can buy today for less money. 

>Quikpak hasn't even given us a clear statement of where they want to
>take the Amiga, once they have acquired it.

They have good intentions, I think (they have spoken with me). They
are interested, if not necessarily sold, on the Alpha, but I take that
as kind of the knee-jerk "wacky user" response -- everyone wants the
fastest possible thing in their Amiga. The problem is, you don't get a
$1000 processor in a $1500 box. 

>They have only made some general statements about where they think it
>should go. And using Alpha will drive the prices up considerably.

They could always do an Alpha card for the PIOS One, port NT, and see
if anyone bites. The AmigaOS port, if they're doing it, would take at
least a year to any CPU. Meanwhile, you get a portable version that
goes onto the third or fourth CPU pretty easily. 

>Me, personnally, I'll keep my eyes peeled and my ears open, and then
>I'll decide on the ground of real information what I think of each of
>the proposals for a new Amiga.

Personally, I'd like to see them port it to the x86, too, just so I
could get an Amiga laptop cheap, And then maybe the Hitachi SH3 or the
ARM -- AmigaOS in ROM would make way more sense on a PDA than
Windows-Anything. Meanwhile, there's a desktop version for those who
want it. 

Of course, that much activity would cost a fortune, and they'd explode
trying to support all that at once. But source licensing would be an
option, like AT&T used to do with UNIX. Let someone else do the port. 

Dave Haynie      V.P. Hardware Engineering    PIOS Computer
haynie@pios.de     "...no RISC, no fun"

---------- END OF FORWARDED MESSAGE ----------

