--------- START OF FORWARDED MESSAGE ---------

From System ....: Internet
From Conference : comp.sys.amiga.misc
MessageID ......: <331fc8c8.696610392@news.jersey.net>
Originally from : Dave Haynie <dhaynie@jersey.net>
Subject ........: Re: Amiga vs. PC - Stop whining!

On Thu, 6 Mar 1997 11:53:29 -0600, grim@mindspring.com (Grim) wrote:

>In article <331ed355.633714072@news.jersey.net>, dhaynie@jersey.net 

>> >Unless you buy AT, neither your machine nor the Phase5 machine are going 
>> >to be Amigas.

>> That's true in the strict sense. But I asked before, can any new
>> machine REALLY be an Amiga? 

>I can see your point. Since the new "Amiga" is radically changing it's 
>hardware and OS, it's not really going to be the same thing at all, 
>except maybe in spirit.

But where is that spirit? I claim it came from the people who made the
Amiga what it is. Simply buying the name doesn't recapture that
spirit, working under another name doesn't eliminate it. I
specifically have not claimed that PIOS is the next Amiga. We are
building new PowerPC computers in the spirit of what I was doing at
Commodore for the future. We're trying to build a machine that will be
accepted as a next generation replacement for the Amiga, maybe even be
a pretty good run-alike. I don't know that necessarily, if the Amiga
assets do ever get purchased, the new guys will have any of those same
goals. In the severe case, you certainly wouldn't expect Microsoft or
Sony (two of the companies on the rumor list) to be doing anything but
adding to their patent portfolio. Rumors claim QuikPak wants to build
workstations, which isn't in keeping with 90%+ of what the Amiga has
been in this market. 

>With this in mind, is the purchase of AT really 
>going to be worth anything at all to a new owner?

Of course it will be, it's their decision to buy based on their
estimate value. The real question is whether this will be meaningful
to people who want a new Amiga system. They could do anything. 

>Personally, I like the idea of the BeOS. 

So do I. I had signed on a BeOS developer a month before AT came
calling. It was something new, cool, ballsey in the day of Wintel
dominance, etc. And much in keeping with the Amiga ideals, if not
actually related to the AmigaOS itself. 

> It's just that there isn't much in the way of applications yet, AFAIK. 

The BeOS has yet to ship to a single normal end-user, it's still just
for developers. Quite frankly, I don't see a great deal of
applications shipping now for BeOS, pOS, PPC Linux, Phase OS, etc.
They're a prereq for any of those to be successful, of course. The
BeOS isn't necessarily a bad target, in fact, based on the number of
developers involved, it has the best potential on the list now. We'll
see what's realized -- certainly a good deal of the original AmigaOS
developers didn't produce. 

>With the loss of the official Mac 
>endorsement, who knows what is going to happen? 

Apple would have killed the BeOS as we know it, it would have merged
into something called "Rhapsody", shipping to developers next fall
from Apple. Much of the good stuff would be compromised, I believe. As
it stands now, Be's set up as the best current alternative to the
MacOS. They're not going to play any of the games Apple has with
licensing, all that flipping on what's going to be licensed, or not.
If IBM signs on, every PPC vendor I know of, except Apple and Phase V,
will be BeOS licensees. I think the FUD over Apple, too, has really
helped here. There's proof in the maket yet to happen, but it's in a
better place than anyone would have expected a year ago.  


Dave Haynie      V.P. Hardware Engineering    PIOS Computer
haynie@pios.de     "...no RISC, no fun"

---------- END OF FORWARDED MESSAGE ----------

