--------- START OF FORWARDED MESSAGE ---------

From System ....: Internet
From Conference : comp.sys.amiga.misc
MessageID ......: <5f9oob$mka@flood.xnet.com>
Originally from : Jason Compton <jcompton@typhoon.xnet.com>
Subject ........: Re: Any Word???? Today is the 28th.

Branko Collin (collin@xs2.xs4all.nl) wrote:

: Oh? I must have completely missed this. Could you give us any technical
: info on how the proceedings work? I seem to remember that you spoke with
: an American representative of the German bankruptcy thingamajig (court?).
: I am sorry for being so vague, but that is only because I haven't got the
: faintest idea about what is going on. And that in turn is because nobody
: seems to be able to tell us anything.

I spoke with the US representative of the German bankruptcy trustee, not
the court itself.  The trustee is Mr. Hembach, whose job it is to sell off
Escom's assets to raise money for Escom's creditors.

The process is not entirely transparent to me.  In some ways, it is
governed by German bankruptcy law, but Hembach seems to have a wide
latitude to do what he sees fit, as I've gathered from a few people I've
spoken with who have had contact with him.

According to David Robinson, Hembach's representative:

1.  On January 31, Hembach stopped ACTIVELY seeking bids.  However, this
did not mean that no further bids would be accepted, and I have reason to
believe from other sources that the bidding process is still continuing.

2.  February 28th was Hembach's target date to have made a decision.  It
was not a commitment, a promise, or a pledge, just a goal.  He seems to
have missed this goal.

Robinson was reluctant to discuss other facets of what is going on.
Unfortunately, German law does not seem to make the same provisions the
Commodore American/Bahamian law had, so that the list of properties for
sale is not publicly available.  At least, Robinson would not release them
to me.

: BTW, even Amiga Magazine says that the decision is made on February 28. It
: says:
: "Op die datum [28 februari] maakt de Duitse liquidateur Bernard Hembach
: namelijk bekend wie het hoogste bod heeft uitgebracht op de [...] rechten
: van de Amiga."
: 
: (Translation: "For on this date [28 February] the German liquidator will
: announce who has made the highest bid for the [...] rights of the Amiga.")
: 
: : It was the date they would have liked to
: : have an answer by, so they said.  And they haven't, so we will just have
: : to keep waiting.
: 
: If even a professional print magazine gets it wrong...

Magazines, print and online, make mistakes.  Particularly where complex
international financial dealings are concerned, since most online magazine
writers and editors are not players in the multimillion dollar markets, so
we're a bit out of our league sometimes.

: Information Jason. If I remember correctly you too kept saying that we,
: the people in uncertaintity, were best served with information.

That sounds like something I would say.  But it's not up to me.  Hembach
is running his own show and it's not really transparent to us.  The
bidding parties have either learned from the mistakes of CEI, C= UK and
VIScorp or were just smarter to begin with and have kept to themselves so
as not to endanger their own position.

I will give Robinson a call next week and see what I can glean.

-- 
Jason Compton                                  jcompton@xnet.com
Editor-in-Chief, Amiga Report Magazine         (847) 741-0689 FAX
AR on Aminet - docs/mags/ar???.lha             WWW - http://www.cucug.org/ar/
The path is clear...                           ...though no eyes can see.
There is always a choice.                      Alternative Computing Now!

---------- END OF FORWARDED MESSAGE ----------

