--------- START OF FORWARDED MESSAGE ---------

From System ....: Internet
From Conference : comp.sys.amiga.misc
MessageID ......: <2296.7003T1104T2610@netrover.com>
Originally from : Victor Ducedre <victord@netrover.com>
Subject ........: Cookies (was Re: IBrowse v1.1 released)

>>Could someone please tell me what cookies are, in this context?  Thanks.

     Let's clear up a few things here...

>On PeeCees with NetScape cookies are little progs or informations that are

     Cookies are not PC/Netscape specific, nor are they programs.  They are
like a token or passport containing specific information that a server gives
to a client.  The client can give this information back to the server on
subsequent pages or visits.
     The most common uses of this are eg. a web site tracking how often you've
visited that site, or for services like "My Yahoo" or "InfoSeek Personal"
(customised information services) that store your preferences in a cookie, and
can recall your preferences on your next visit, without needing to ask for
passwords, etc.

>send to your computer when your on the www with your web browser. If a server
>or any other computer does send a cookie to either on computer or as many as
>you want. I don't see the positive part of this as my brother did only have
>problems with these cookies on his PC.

>        1) you do get a lot of advertisements (send as cookies)

     You do not see cookies in the course of using a web browser, so sending
an advertisement this way makes no sense. 

>        2) a cookie can run another prog or run itself on the remote computer

     A cookie cannot run any programs on your computer.  It is information. 
That's all.  Even if the server could send you a program via a cookie, the
server has no way of running it once it's there.

>           (on PeeCees there are cookies which will check your software on
>           your computer. It then send back informations about your system

     Not likely.

>        3) cookies can be viruses (MacAffee on PeeCees does check the cookies
>           when you're online!

     See the reasoning above to see why cookies can't be viruses.

>I think they just a mean to watch all the computers on the WEB: big brotehr
>is watching you.

     If you really are this paranoid about somebody peeking at your cookies,
then turn the option off in your browser.

--
Victor Ducedre                     That is my theory, it is mine, and
victord@netrover.com                  it belongs to me, and I own it,
                                                 and what it is, too.


---------- END OF FORWARDED MESSAGE ----------

