--------- START OF FORWARDED MESSAGE ---------

From System ....: Internet
From Conference : comp.sys.amiga.misc
MessageID ......: <331c26e1.458494380@news.jersey.net>
Originally from : Dave Haynie <dhaynie@jersey.net>
Subject ........: Re: QuikPak's plans (was A/BOX and Operating systems)

On Tue, 04 Mar 1997 03:48:59 GMT, Traveler@Neosoft.Com (Traveler)
wrote:

>>>>Bullshit!  Quikpak are out of their tiny little minds!  Their current ideal
>>>>is to keep pushing out 060 based machines for the home and a DEC ALPHA for
>>>>the high end.  That is - INSANE!  68000 is a dead beast and DEC costs the
>>>>earth.  Noone is going to be buying an alpha Amiga over a PC for instance.

>Apparently we haven't checked Alpha prices lately have we! I just
>purchased a 266MHz Alpha for $500 new! 

The slower Alphas are cheap because, basically, no one wants them.
They're very low on the MIPS per MHz rating. The newer 21164 chips are
better than the 21064 family, but you still 180MHz HP RISC's beat out
600MHz Alphas on most bencharks. 

However, being a RISC processor, the Alpha will outperform the x86
under the right conditions, and that's coming. The basic problem right
now is that the Alphas were designed specifically for workstations,
not personal computers. That emphasized performance over cost
effectiveness, so the whole systems really haven't compared, unless
you get slow one on a closeout sale. 

Sometime this year, DEC is releasing a version of the Alpha designed
for use in personal computers. It goes 500MHz, and in theory will
outperform anything you can do on an x86, both under Windows NT, which
is the Alpha's immediate personal computer target OS. They get the
cost down by using more personal computer standard pieces, like the
PowerPC machines some of us built, but also by simplifying the chip.
Workstation class Alphas have something like 16K of L1 cache and 96K
or more of L2 cache on-chip, these are cutting the on-chip L2 cache
and using a conventional external L2 cache. That's a performance cut,
the real question is how much. It's a bit of a risk, since at 500MHz,
you really are more dependent on speed than at 200MHz. And most
competing CPUs will have 2x-4x as much on-chip L1 cache. If they
retain the 128-bit bus, though, that should help quite a bit.

But you're still talking high-end personal computers here. While most
folks reading this newsgroup want that, that's not where the Amiga has
had much success. 

>>By choosing the Alpha Quickpak might as well of handed the Amiga market to
>>Phase5 and PIOS.  I don't think they're going to be very worried about an Alpha
>>amiga that noone except a tiny minority of a tiny market(!) will buy.  That
>>means there will be little or no support for Alpha apps for the machine.  Great
>>move.  

>Well, so far the Alpha has semi-decent support - who will know though,

The Alpha market today is primarily Windows NT. You can run UNIX on
it, like most OSs, but NT is far more common. DEC is a big NT
supporter, and they've tolerated UNIX all these years, but never been
a staunch supporter. Those are the mainstream choices. Obviously, the
AmigaOS is only on the 68K now, so there's no installed base on Alpha
or PowerPC. But the PowerPC is far more popular as a personal
computing engine, and as a result, you have a much better selection of
operating systems. 

The question, of course, will be if anyone's going to be comfortable
buying a RISC box that starts at about $3000 from QuikPak for the
AmigaOS. That's not far from the A4000T price today, on the one hand,
but the A4000T is selling to a ready-made market. When the market says
"you have to jump to something else", a new machine like this doesn't
necessarily become the landing area of choice. On the other hand, if
they're interested in NT too, there is a good bit of video production
software running on NT these days, and more happening all the time.
Music software support is far worse, but even there it seems to be
taken as a given that NT is supported this year by many of the Windows
people. Of course, they might well kill the RISC AmigaOS if the
applications answer is always "well, it runs under NT".

>>>>Both PIOS and Phase5 have chosen PPC for their next gen. platforms, and not
>>>>because they're idiots either.

>>>IBM and Motorolla are disappointed in the PPC's performance in the market
>>>and have admitted it is not as great as they thought it would be.

They're actually pretty happy, now that the open MacOS problem has
been resolved. Apple's been intentionally dragging down the PPC market
for five years, in order to boost their short-term advantages. This is
pretty much disappearing this year. Look at Mot's computer division.
They sold some small number of NT and AIX boxes, maybe 10,000 a year,
and had all this amazing capacity in their ultra-modern factory in
Tempe, AZ (I vistited there, when consulting for AT, since we had
talked about using Mot for contract manufacturing). Since they've been
selling the StarMax systems that run MacOS, this plant has been
running at capactity. 

>>> Unless they improve the chip line dramatically.. the PPC could have a limited
>>>future.

They've been outrunning the Intel offerings since the beginning. This
year, the successor to the PPC603 family should be as fast or faster
than the Klamath, while the next generation PPC604 class processor all
the faster still. That's an improvement, sure, but the main thing will
be that the PPC market is transitioning out of Apple's total
domination. Everyone wants this.

All RISC could do better. The PPC is selling in millions a year, the
Alpha in 100,000 or so, and most others aren't going onto desktops,
except for internal use (SPARCs at Sun, PA-RISC at HP, MIPS at SGI,
Power2 at IBM, and of course, most of the Alphas sold are still
internal to DECs workstations). Sure, the PPC market isn't as big as
it would have been had Apple not sabatoged it, but it's reasonable.
Even the shipment of non-Apple PPC machines will exceed that of Alphas
this year, not to mention that Apple is still doing a decent business
in computers, plus the industrial and embedded use of the chips. 

>>  Quikpak's pricing policy is as ludicrous as Commodores ever was - and
>
>^^^^ Probably not but it's quite possible.

QuikPak can't perform miracles anymore than Commodore could have. The
A4000 machines are inherently expensive. That's by design, after all.
The A4000 architecture dates back to 1989, since it's essentially
unchanged from the Amiga 3000 architecture me and Greg Berlin worked
out. First off, that A3000 architecture wasn't intended to be a
multi-machine thing, it was supposed to be in the A3000, period. These
were chips, Commodore gate arrays, after all, and they could be
changed if necessary. Or so we thought. In 1991, the Ali/Sydnes
administration stopped new architectural improvements, so the
differences in the A4000, even trivial stuff like AA support, IDE,
etc. had to be hacked in. The CPU board was never integrated as
planned, so it stayed slow and expensive, even though the replacement
design would have paid for itself in two months production, and
offered much faster systems. 

This legacy is unshakeable; if you have a classic Amiga today, it's
going to be based on this architecture, or the somewhat better
A1200/CD32 architecture if you're going for the low-end. No one's
going to invest in a cost reduction for this stuff, there's not enough
volume. This is why PClones are cheaper than today's surviving Amigas.
And it's why we can make PPC systems cheaper, too. 

>>>PPC has the edge for now.. but will it last?
>
>PPC having the edge??? Alpha systems are quite a bit faster than PPC
>systems, unless of course you are comparing a recent PPC chip to the
>older DEC Multias.

The fastest Alphas do beat the fastest PPCs today, but for the price
of the fastest Alphas, you can put together a multiprocessor PPC
system that'll smoke that high-end Alpha. If you really need the
top-end performance on a single CPU, you may still go the Alpha route,
but otherwise, I don't think it makes sense. This is the same reason
the Alphas have yet to even take the NT market by storm, even though
an Alpha NT machine is a complete drop-in replacement for an x86 NT
machine. The reason is simple: you pay another $500-$800 or whatever
for a second PentiumPro, which gives you more performance for the
price than the uniprocessor Alpha box. Perhaps the PC-ized version of
the Alpha will change this, but one thing for certain -- that 500Mhz
Alpha will not be as fast as the 500MHz Alpha systems everyone's used
to.

And that may not matter, commercially. The simple fast that there's a
500MHz clock running that CPU will convince some people, since the PC
industry has done such a good job of making people MHZ-conscious, even
though they don't understand the first thing about what's going on,
and where fast clocks do and don't help, what you give up for those
fast clocks, etc. 


Dave Haynie      V.P. Hardware Engineering    PIOS Computer
haynie@pios.de     "...no RISC, no fun"

---------- END OF FORWARDED MESSAGE ----------

