5
1*
{A                        Viscorpin lehdistötiedotteet
{A                        ----------------------------

 
{2Seuraavassa syventävää tietoa  Viscorpin  suunnitelmista  viimeisten  kuukausien
{2ajalta lehdistötiedotteiden muodossa.  Ensimmäisestä  tiedotteesta  Janne  Siren
{2tarjosi Viscorpille suomenkielistä käännöstä, joka ystävällisesti yrityksen  ko-
{2tisivuilla myös julkaistiin. 

{3                                   * * *

{DVIScorp - Amiga -tapaaminen Euroopassa

{2Uusi  amerikkalainen  ostaja,  VIScorp,  tuntee  ja  käyttää  Amiga-teknologiaa.
{2Pääjohtaja Bill Buck haluaa tavata ja oppia tuntemaan Amiga-yhteisön jäsenet pa-
{2remmin. Valitakseen nopeasti suuntansa VIScorp kutsuu kaikki  Amigan  käyttäjät,
{2myyjät, ohjelmisto- ja laitteistovalmistajat sekä lehdistön tapaamiseen. 

{D19. toukokuuta 1996 - Toulouse, Ranska

{2Tapaamisen tarkoitus on herättää keskustelua ja tuoda kaikki  ehdotukset  esille
{2harkittaviksi. Amigan tulevaisuudesta päätetään tämän tapaamisen  tulosten  poh-
{2jalta.

{2Tehdäksemme tapaamisesta menestyksen pyydämme Teitä  lähettämään  ehdotuksia  ja
{2keskusteluideoita faksilla tai sähköpostilla toukokuun 12. päivään mennessä. Ai-
{2karajan umpeuduttua avaamme kaiken saamamme postin ja valmistelemme  yhteenvedon
{2esiteltäväksi VIScorpille.


{219. päivä tapaamisessa ovat paikalla Bill Buck, Don Gilbreath, Carl  Sassenrath,
{2David Rosen ja Raquel Velasco puhumassa Amiga-yhteisölle ja  esittelemässä  set-
{2top-järjestelmän. Tämä on  ensimmäinen  kerta  Amigan  historiassa,  kun  koneen
{2käyttäjäkunnalta pyydetään  konsultaatiota.  Olettehan  paikalla  osallistumassa
{2Amigan viimeiseen mahdollisuuteen.

{2Saadaksenne lisätietoja tapaamisesta ja/tai lähettääksenne  ehdotuksia,  neuvoja
{2ja kommentteja, VIScorp pyytää ottamaan yhteyttä Eric Laffontiin:

{BPuhelin/faksi: 33 + 61.53.86.56 Sähköposti: elaffont@pratique.fr
{B          WWW: www.vistv.com

{2Muistakaa vierailla VIScorpin kotisivuilla (www.vistv.com) tapaamassa tiimiä. 

{2Toivottavasti näemme Toulousessa.


{3                                   * * *

VIScorp - News 25-MAY-96
By David Rosen, 25-May-96

VISCORP'S TOULOUSE GATHERING

In  anticipation  of  VIScorp's  likely  acquisition  of  Amiga,  we  convened a
gathering  of  Amiga  developers, vendors and users in Toulouse, Fr., on Sunday,
May 19th. It was a successful event, drawing over 250 people! This event was far
more  comprehensive  than an initial press conference held after the Amiga World
show  in  London  in  April,  and  serves  as  a  model  for a planned series of
additional gatherings to be held the future.
The purpose of this gathering was two-fold: first, to provide an opportunity for
VIScorp  to  introduce  its  senior management and corporate vision to the Amiga
community  and,  second,  to  secure  valuable feedback from the community as to
their concerns and suggestions about the future of the Amiga. The conference was
organized  by  Eric  Laffont,  without  whose  commitment  it would neither have
happened nor been as successful as it was. Our deepest thanks go out to Eric!

The  day-long gathering was divided into four major parts: (1) a morning session
of  presentations and Q&A; (2) an informal lunch during which participants could
meet  and  discuss the morning session; (3) an afternoon session of two parallel
workshops,  one  with  developers and the other with vendors/distributors (users
and  the  press  circulated  between  workshops);  and  (4) a concluding summary
session  followed by a reception. The morning session was carried in realtime on
the  Internet's  chat  services,  the  IRC, and many people throughout the world
participated.  The  following  presents  an  overview  of the presentations made
during  the  morning  session;  the  afternoon sessions consisted of less formal
presentation  by VIScorp personnel and provided participants with an opportunity
to raise specific questions and/or put forward their own ideas and concerns.
 
The  morning  session  was  the  linchpin for the day's events. Bill Buck (CEO)
provided  the opening introduction and laid out VIScorp's corporate mission of a
twin  set-top and desk-top business -- this mission is anchored in a fundamental
commitment  to  the  Amiga OS and its long-term maturation. Bill made clear that
VIScorp's  commitment to the Amiga computer was based on a strong belief that it
could be a profitable business once again. Bill reiterated the fact that VIScorp
had  not  as yet secured ownership of the Amiga and, therefore, could not layout
specific  plans.  Nevertheless,  in anticipation of the acquisition, VIScorp had
initiated preliminary discussions with a number of companies (e.g., Motorola) as
to  further  platform  development.  Bill  concluded  his  presentation  with  a
demonstration  of  the  "ED" set-top appliance and a discussion of the company's
belief in the long-term opportunities of the Internet/Web.

Don  Gilbreath  (VP,  Engineering)  and  Carl  Sassenrath (Director of Software)
provided indepth technical discussions of the "ED" system as well as some likely
developments  of the Amiga OS. Don showed off the new "ED" motherboard, recently
received  from  Solectron, and discussed the performance capabilities of some of
the  key  components.  In  addition, he showed a new 060-based motherboard which
could  be  made  available  immediately  and would increase Amiga performance by
four-fold.

Carl,  a  member  of  the  original  group  that  wrote the Amiga OS, provided a
detailed discussion of some of the additions currently being implemented for the
ED/Amiga OS. He outlined twenty-four (24) specific additions to the OS that were
being  developed  for the set-top environment and which will enhance the overall
performance  of the Amiga (they will be provided to developers separately). Both
Don and Carl discussed some of the possible future steps that VIScorp might take
if it secured Amiga, including a review of a possible relationship with Motorola
for  an  Amiga  PowerPC;  they  also  identified  other  possible migration path
options, but stress that all these ideas were purely speculative.

David  Rosen  (VP,  Marketing)  further  elaborated on Bill Buck's presentation,
clarifying  VIScorp's  overall  objectives  of  the  twin  set-top  and desk-top
strategy.  He  made clear that the company had originally secured a license from
Amiga  Technologies  because  it  assess  the  Amiga  OS as uniquely appropriate
technology  to  facilitate  the  convergence  of (analog) TV, telecommunications
(especially  networked-based  interactivity and the Internet/Web) and computing.
He stressed that the dominate approaches to networked-based interactivity in the
U.S.  --  i.e.,  the cable/telco ITV approach and PC/modem (or Network Computer)
approach   --   had  stalled,  providing  a  unique  opportunity  for  VIScorp's
Amiga-based solution.

David  stated  that  given the clear break of home computing into two spheres --
home/office  productivity  (with  a  "Wintel" monopoly) and gameplay (with Sega,
Sony,  Nintendo  dominance) -- could provide an opportunity for Amiga because of
the  consumer's  desire for choice, price advantage and unique performance (true
multitasking  and multimedia). He added that conditions were different in Europe
(with  an historically strong low-end consumer business) and in the U.S. (with a
stronger   acceptance   among  vertical  business,  especially  media-production
market),  these differences represented an opportunity for a well-targeted niche
approach.

Eric  Laffont  (Manager  International  Technical  Development Amiga) and Raquel
Velasco   (Director,  European  Sales/Marketing)  reviewed  the  findings  of  a
specially  conducted  Internet  survey of Amiga users/developers. The survey has
more  than  2,100 respondents from over 30 countries, including Peru, Lithuania,
Croatia,  Uruguay  as  well  as  Europe  and  North  America. 90 percent offered
positive  words  of  support for the Amiga and to VIScorp. The survey focused on
two  areas  of  inquiry:  (i)  the  status of Amiga equipment owned/used (model,
peripherals, etc.) and (ii) what they needed/wanted for the Amiga in the future.
The  survey represented the first time to our knowledge that the Amiga community
had  been  polled  and provided us with valuable insight into its concerns. (The
survey and its findings will be posted shortly on our Web site.)

David Rosen
Vice President, Business Development

www.vistv.com

{3                                   * * *

June 19, 1996 - Chicago, IL USA

VISCORP VALUES THE AMIGA

System Improvements

In  the  months  ahead,  VIScorp  will be making substantial improvements to the
Amiga  system architecture, including both the hardware design and the operating
system  software.  These advanced new systems will be developed not only for our
upcoming Set Top Boxes, but also for future Amiga Desk Top Computers. VIScorp is
investing considerable resources into engineering these improvements.

One  of  the  primary  objectives  of  VIScorp's  business  plan  is to develop,
manufacture, market, and sell Amiga Desk Top Computer Systems.

Architecture Group

Many  of  the  above  improvements  require  an  in-depth knowledge of specialty
markets and technologies. Because of this, VIScorp made the decision in May 1996
to  form  an  Architectural  Design Group consisting of a small number of highly
qualified Amiga experts. While this group is still in its early formation stage,
we  intend  it  to oversee and resolve the numerous suggestions and enhancements
that must be addressed for the long term success of the Amiga.

Technology Licenses

As  stated above, VIScorp will research and develop valuable enhancements to the
architecture  and  technology  of  the  Amiga, resulting in a wide range of next
generation, price competitive computer products.

There  are,  however,  situations in which it makes sense for VIScorp to license
Amiga  related  technology  to qualified companies whose business objectives are
consistent  with  VIScorp's long range plan. Such agreements may include binary,
ROM,  and  documentation  licenses  for  the  distribution of Amiga OS upgrades,
hardware and software system licenses for specialty markets, and possibly source
code  co-development  licenses to help expand the Amiga and its feature set into
the next decade.

Property Rights Infringement

It  has  come  to  our  attention that several companies plan to build their own
"compatible"  or  "extended"  versions of the Amiga without obtaining the proper
licensing  from  VIScorp.  These  companies  will be placing themselves at legal
risk,  because  their  systems  will  undoubtedly infringe on Amiga intellectual
property rights, including copyrights, patents, and trade secrets.

In  addition,  we  have  recently become aware that versions of the Amiga System
ROMs  are  being  reproduced and distributed without proper licensing. This is a
violation  of  international copyright law, and VIScorp will prosecute offenders
to the full extent of the law.

Realize  that  VIScorp  is  purchasing  Amiga  Technologies at great expense for
ownership   of  precisely  the  above  property  rights  and  considers  them  a
fundamental  asset  of  the  company.  As  such, VIScorp intends to aggressively
defend  its  position  as  the  owner of the Amiga and its related technologies.
Companies that choose to violate the law are well advised to consider the easier
and less costly path of obtaining a license.

If  you  have  important  comments regarding the above statement, please send us
email using a subject line of "We Value Amiga".

Your  mail  will  be  read carefully, but please realize that we cannot directly
respond to all mail.




Press Release Amiga Technologies GmbH

ESCOM AG sells Amiga Technologies GmbH to Viscorp

Bochum/Heppenheim/Chicago, June 21, 1996.

ESCOM  AG  and  Visual  Information Service Corp. (VIScorp), have now signed the
final  agreement  about  the  acquisition of Amiga Technologies GmbH by VIScorp,
subject  to  approval  by  their  boards. According to the agreement, the entire
staff  and  property  of ESCOM subsidiary Amiga Technologies GmbH will pass into
the  possession  of  VIScorp. This includes all existing components and finished
goods  in  inventory  of  Amiga  and  the  intellectual properties of the former
Commodore   group,   except   Commodore   trademarks.   The  purchase  price  is
approximately US $40 million in stock and cash.

VIScorp's  products,  the  Universal  Internet  Television Interface (UITI), the
Electronic  Device  (ED),  the UITI-TV and the ED-TV (smart television systems),
are powered by Amiga custom chip-sets and the Amiga operating system and offer a
means  by  which  TV  viewers  can bridge the separate worlds of the television,
computing and telecommunications.

Amiga   Technologies  GmbH  will  continue  to  coordinate  the  production  and
distribution of Amiga computers at its headquaters in Bensheim, Germany.

Additional information on VIScorp and its technologies are available through its
Web site at http://www.vistv.com.

For further information:

ESCOM AG, Dr. Bernd Wirsing, Tel.: +49-6252-709-193
AMIGA  Technologies  GmbH,  Petro Tyschtschenko, Tel.: +49-6251-802-110 VISCorp,
Florine Radulovic, Tel.: +1-312655-0903
