- As the maker of PalomAVI and MooVId and PIV-MooVId, would you like to
introduce yourself a bit?

I'm 24 years old, at the moment I work in a public library and I study
informatics. I bought my first Amiga in 1992, but at the moment I own 5
Amigas.

- What equipment do you use for creating your programs?

I used several Amigas for development. I started it with an A1200/030-50,
later I used an A1200/040-40, then an A4000/030 w. PicassoIV, after that an
A4000 with A3640 and now an A4000 with 060/50 (with PicassoIV of course).
For testing I also use my friend's machines (various Amiga models from
base A1200/CD32 to A2000-A4000)

- How did the idea of these programs cross your mind?

I got some so-called 'Multimedia' CD-ROMs in 1994 or '95 from a friend of
mine who's a PC user. The only AVI player I found for Amiga though (except
for the unusably slow Xanim) was TapAVI. It was great for small animations,
but it was relatively slow on the 030/50/AGA. So I thought I could write a
better one and started work in 1996. First I added AVI support, and later
MOV, and I started to code a special PicassoIV only version in 1997)

- How did you get the licenses for the Intel-Codecs?

That's a good question because my Intel indeo support code is based on the
Xanim indeo object code. After I finished the port for Epic Marketing (Epic
used an old version of MooVId to play the animations on their CD-ROMs, and
they'll distribute MooVId Professional - a cheap commercial version of
MooVId - when I finish it which will hopefully be in a couple of weeks) I
asked Intel (Intel UK to be precise) to give me the license. They agreed
and I should get it soon. That was about half a year ago, though, and the
license hasn't arrived yet. So I have a legal decoder without a license,
and I want to wait for the license before I publish the commercial version
so I won't get in trouble.

- What were the main difficulties while programming?

Hmmm... only the missing or unusable AVI/MOV file description or codec
documentations, because I coded MooVId from scratch, and not based on
Xanim's source. I never had any Amiga related problems (Except that very
strange bug I found in kickstart 3.0), because the original C= developer
manuals are really great (I mean the AutoDocs of course). But if someone
else out there wants to write a new AVI/MOV player from scratch I recommend
A LOT of patience. ;)

- In which directions will your programs tend?

As I said, there will be a cheap commercial version of MooVId soon, and
later I want to add some missing video/audio codecs too. I'm planning to
make a VIVO player (maybe a Realvideo as well) but again there's the
problem of licence fees.... (unfortunately AI don't want to licence
anything... hmm :((( ) And an MPEG1 video player with sound is planned,
too. Finally I want to make a PPC version of MooVId.

- What is VHI intended for and what's the goal you want to achieve?

VHI stands for Video Hardware Interface (not necessarily the final name),
and it will be a standard for the Amiga video capture cards (like
VLab/Paloma, etc.) It will be able to control all cards with the same
library calls (like AHI). And maybe it will include a real-time data
compression (DCT based, similar to H263) which will be usable as video
conference tool.

- Who are the people involved in VHI?

The main idea came from Felix Schwarz (the author of Ultraconv), and my
friend (Stephen Fellner) joined us a few days ago (He coded some fast
DCT stuff and he has a half finished MPEG video player - 68k - too, which
will be the fastest MPEG player available for Amiga). So we're just a few
 people....

- How are the intentions to cooperate with AHI and P96 and things like that?

The capture cards support on Amiga was really poor. There was just one
so-called official standard, what is the 'vlab.library' emulation. We
thought it would be better to write our own standard, and with it we can
achieve better performance, and the possibility to use all card's special
features.

- Any ideas when VHI will hit the street?

Hmmm... i think within a few months. I don't want to state an exact date
because there are bound to be some problems (for example the Paloma driver
in p96 is not finished, and we only have limited documentations about the
VLAB cards). And we need some recource stuff to add support for the older
cards (like VidiAmiga, etc) ;)

- What's your opinion concerning tha actual situation with Amiga Inc., QNX and
all the other players?

I was in Cologne last year and I saw the QNX demonstration. Except for the
crashes it was good, but unfortunately NO Amiga, and too far from the
AmigaOS. It's more like a Unix/Linux clone. And QNX can do nothing with the
old 68k machines. I think the AmigaOS is still the best operating system
(with some minor problems only) and I don't understand why AI want change
to QNX...

And about AI... hmm... hard question... I think they HAVE TO do something
for Amiga... for example licence some video codecs or something in that
direction. A standalone developer can't do that because of the extremely
high licence fees. And I'm still waiting for the AmigaOS3.5, but im a bit
sceptical about that.

- And finally: when will you correct the missing-picture-errors at the
download section of your homepage? ;-)

Hehe... soon ;) But I'd better finish MooVId 1.0 first ;)

Thanks for the interview!
