--------- START OF FORWARDED MESSAGE ---------

From System ....: Internet
From Conference : comp.sys.amiga.misc
MessageID ......: <330bcca1.156577136@hermes.jersey.net>
Originally from : Dave Haynie <dhaynie@jersey.net>
Subject ........: Re: Why I am so sad ...  The amiga story of the editor of AM

On 17 Feb 97 15:15:14 +1200, misc3608@csc.canterbury.ac.nz wrote:

>In article <5e68lq$smj@alexander.INS.CWRU.Edu>, aq722@cleveland.Freenet.Edu (John Gregor) writes:

>The reason the PC is popular is quite simple...  
>Originally they were cheap, and they were easily expandible, thus they 
>gained popularity.  

Actually, PC were originally very expensive. When you could get an
A1000  for $1200 or so, a PC of the same basic performance level would
run you $4000 or more. PCs caught on first for one reason: Lotus
1-2-3. The spreadsheet was already the primary reason to use a
personal computer in business, and the previous one, VisiCalc, had
just about made the Apple II in business. But large business didn't
trust Apple. They did trust IBM, and the combination of more memory,
16-bit performance, and that $350 math chip you could buy, made the PC
many times faster than the Apple II. And trusted by big business,
which could afford it. And it grew from there.

It's only fairly recently that PClones have become cheap. Even back in
the A3000 days the A3000 was a decent buy, PC makers were still
building very customized computers, etc. Nowdays, there's so much
standardization, most PC makers don't even really make their PCs, they
just buy motherboards from someone else. All the competition in the
market, coupled with very high volumes on the components in these
systems, has driven the prices through the floor, of course, but that
wasn't always the case.

>(And will probably continue to do so, despite their Hardware and OS 
>failings.)  

Aside from the rather arcane x86 instruction set, there's not much
lacking in PC hardware these days. And even that fairly bogus
architecture isn't all THAT bad when you run it at 200MHz and put a
superscalar RISC engine underneath it all. Pretty much all SCSI and
most EIDE is DMA driven, just like a good Amiga (won't mention that
bastardized IDE on the A4000 -- whoops! I just did). ISA bus is as
dumb as ever, but every year it's less of a factor. And new standards,
like USB and Firewire, are very good. Graphics cards run blits 100x
faster than Amiga blits, have CPU access 20x faster, and many are
doing 3D acceleration. 

Basically, if you're having problems with the OS on a PC, and I
certainly do, knowing what's possible on the AmigaOS, IT'S THE OS, NOT
THE HARDWARE. If AmigaOS came out for the x86 PC tomorrow, you'd love
it, and it would seem nothing more than a rockin'-fast Amiga. The main
reason for the PowerPC is that it's faster, cheaper, better for
multiprocessing, and it doesn't have those arcane instructions. But
realize this: the Amiga architecture hasn't significantly advanced in
five years. That's about three generations of computer. 

>> I'm sure they will, in just 2 more weeks, same as 3 years ago.

>I fear you are correct here...  
>though I will remain with my Amiga for now, because I have yet to see an 
>alternative I like.  

And based on all of what I said above, take this advice: Never buy
technology before you need it. You get to define "need" of course. But
alternatives are on the way, more will come after that, change is the
only constant in the business. Hopefully this year finds the Amiga
Industry unfrozen at last, if not by a new home for the AmigaOS, then
at least some systems that pass the "acceptable to Amiga users" acid
test. And that, folks, may be part of my job to try to define, but you
all have the ultimate vote.

>I know the porpose of every single file on the boot-partition of my 
>Amiga.  And thus have complete confidence in any modificatiios I wish 
>to make to it.  It is a tool over which I have complete control.  

This is a major failing of the Microsoft-influenced OSs: Windows,
OS/2, NT, whever. There is just too much "magic" stuff going on. You
understand what happens in Startup-Sequence because, quite simply,
Startup-Sequence is a list of what happens. You can type the same
commands in a shell and, for the most part, get the same effect. Does
anyone REALLY know what happens when you boot Windows 95?
Interestingly, UNIX pretty much does it the Amiga way. So does BeOS. 

>I doubt I will ever understand what a significant percentage of the files 
>in a PC os are for...  (and this is -not- through ignorance of it.)  
>Thus I will always be a slave to it.  

Microsoft wants you to be their dog. 

Dave Haynie      V.P. Hardware Engineering    PIOS Computer
haynie@pios.de     "...no RISC, no fun"

---------- END OF FORWARDED MESSAGE ----------

