--------- START OF FORWARDED MESSAGE ---------

From System ....: Internet
From Conference : comp.sys.amiga.misc
MessageID ......: <9555.6990T1127T1401@guest.arnes.si>
Originally from : Jernej Pecjak <vid.pecjak@guest.arnes.si>
Subject ........: Why I am happy. A story of the editor of AM

Hi:

Well, you must remember me from moaning and grumping a week or two back. In the
meantime people learned me the following:

1. Why should I be sad if I can be happy with my computer which serves me well
2. Why should I constantly moan and grump.

Instead I am taking this opportunnity to tell you about the wonderfull amiga
community.

The first thing is first. I want to thank all of the nice developers who didn't
say: eghh, Slovenian market is too small for us, but instead help me with
reviewing their software. Amiga Master is 100% unprofitable and made in spare
time, so I couldn't afford to buy all the programs I wanted to review. Amiga
community in general was very helpfull, of which I must first thank (in no
particular order)

- Pro Dad
- Hisoft
- Oliver Wagner
- The author of Topolino
- Cloanto
- Authors of Wildfire
- Andreas Gunther (Scan Quix)
- Impulse
- Michael den Outher
- Make CD and Burn It authors
- Asimware
- Frank Pagels
- Authors of X-DVE

and all the others who showed that small things also matter. Without them,
Slovenian people would have no chance to read about new and wonderfull products
out there.

So a big big Thank you to all of you who helped or are helping us in writing the
magazine.

People like Larry Hickmot are also a great contributors to AMiga community with
programs like Draw studio.

New things are promising for amiga every day. Last week I dl the preview of a
game similar to Warcraft. It is allready playable. Today, I got a preview of 3D
car racing game, texturemapped and I can even multitask. Great. Last minute I
read about a new WWW browser, which will have ava support.

Power Up is comming, Picasso 96 is developing nicely for Picasso IV and other
cards, Aminet is full of software for everybody, Pro dad is making a whole new
OS for our favouriti machine.

On top of all that I got 3 visitors of PC users in last days. They were both
impressed of what a powerfull amiga could do. THey all agreed their PC can not
multitask so smoothly, they were impressed by my Dir utility Dir Work, which I
have in memory all the time because it takes 80Kb of it. They fell of the chair
(one even hurt itself) when I told them the OS is in ROM, so I really can not
"loose the GUI" like Win 95 and that OS is 4 years old. When I told them I have
32 + characters in filenames for 10 years (they told me they just got it in Win
95) and other things, one of them told me he'll buy Amiga also. The sad part is
he is a computer student at the Uni, but he is getting only WIN pumped up. He
heard of amiga but thought of it like it were Amstrad CPC, he never saw Unix on
Uni, not Mac, Linux, nothing. He is learning Oberon and Visual basic for Win95.
In fact, he got a little angry with me, because he now knows what is on the
other side. He didn't like win also, but what can he do, everybody has it and he
needs it to program. But he assured me he'll buy amiga also.

That was a nice experience.

Another thing: My amiga serves ME well, very well. I've tried Mac by
Shapeshifter, I've tried PC a LOT because my dad has one. None of this systems
serves me well or do what I want. Maybe it is I own amiga for so long, maybe it
is a better system, I really don't care. What matters to my decision is what I
think. You can replay to this (Pc users) and persuade me how PC gives me more
for my money, but it will be a vaste of time. I made up my mind a long time ago
and I am sticking to it. I am not blind nor dumm. Maybe some day I change my
computers if and when my Amiga won't serve me and where there will be to many
occasions I will fell left out. Now I can do what I want, I can browse the net,
IRC, ftp, write text or esseys, commecials, make video sports, make WWW pages,
write my magazine etc. I really do not need to change platforms to bug myself
with more problems. I would be dumm to do so. I know amiga well. I don't know
PC. Why would I waste all of my knowledge I have and learn someting from the
beggining. If one does this, the other system must do justice for the time and
effort one will put in this. Windows 95 and as far as Windows 97 does not
justify this. In my opinion, it doesn't justify anything for me, because at the
end, I'll be able to to the same thing I can do now, with less hassle for me. So
I am staying amiga today and tommorow. In five years time I can not tell and I
do not care anymore. I do care about those friendly people in amiga industry
and friendly amiga users wanting to help me everytime. PC people were not so
friendly, but I guess friendship makes minority stronger. Maybe we would be more
divided if amiga would be in every house instead of PC.

But then, I don't find this alarming. I even would not want every one to have
amiga one day as now has PC. I know this kind of people. This are the same that
are now multitasking for the first time on WIn 95, because it is the only OS to
do so. If amiga would (it won't but I pretend for a sec) exchange PC's, the same
people would swear on amiga like nothing else. Well, I stay loyal in good and
bad times and do not pretend there aren't things PC can do faster than amiga.
They are. And in software you have more chice, but I don't want to much choice.

I can talk to Mr. Wagner, Mr. Batilana of Cloanto or Mr. Link from Hisoft. They
are the bosses of their companies, but they are open to our suggestions and that
makes amiga so great. I don't see them as bosses of big unfriendly companies,
but like an open minded, great people.

And now I finally realised than money can't make things as pasion can. Netscape
can employ 100 people to do Netscape navigator, but one or two amiga programmers
can do the same or (there will be flames) functionality the same as them with
their big hearth. Yes, I know Netscape can do 100 more things than Ibrowse, but
I do not miss any of them, I see all the information and this is what WWW is,
information. People seems to forget this. WWW is not playing 3D games, is not
like looking a movie or something, it is a powerfull way to distribute
information in a structured and easy to find way. 90% of all www makers are
forgetting this and so are the VRML makers. I don't like VRML for one, because
displaying 2D info in 2D monitor is not as intuitive as now. Sure it is nice
walking around and cicking on the things, but this is NOT what WWW is about. So,
back to my point. I don't care about netscape options as long as I do not miss
any. And I do not. I can go to SS and play Netscape but I do that just to test
if my pages are OK on it. It loads to much time, for one reason only. Netscape
won't return my letters, Oliver Wagner will be happy if I find him one bug,
that's the other. In a small community small things matter.

And this is where I begun my letter. Small things matter, many amiga developers
and users showed me this and they also matter to me.

AN finally, I do think most PC users I know are ignorant to other things, but I
think it come with the position they have. Beeing to economically powerfull like
Microsoft is is certanly no good for end users. I do believe Microsoft is making
things so complicated because they do not want poeople to be to smart on their
systems, but depending on them. This is my belief.

Somebody here said that Win 95 is 100Mb because it offers more. Yes, I do agree
in this point. But one on amiga can expand his Workbench with one simple aminet
CD. I've done that. I have networking support, I have Slovenian fonts, slovenian
keymap I made (on PC there are no Keymap editors and Bill Gates for one was bad
to our country, making our letters on non standard places again in Win. So
because of his "standard" we have 5 keymap locations now on different Windows
over Slovenia. Thank you, Mr. Gates. Makes designing a www page a real joy). I
have backgrounds, devices, virtuall floppy on HD (I have to see this on PC), Dir
utility (don't tell me Program manager is a dir utility!), MCP commodity with
great results. o my system is very nice to anybody who comes to me. But tell you
what - it doesn't take 10Mb. It would be nice if all those things would be in
Workbench disks, but I doubt they would ever be 100Mb. Well, if your 100Mb
aren't enough, why don't you try a beta of Win 97? I heard it will soon break
the 200Mb barrier. Well, Mr. PC user, good for me is HD's are cheaper every day,
unfortunately for you is, you can store Win and Office on a typical size HD. I
have a partition for 500Mb and I have around 200 programs on it. And know what,
most of them are PD. So I won't bug myseld about people like you are, I will
continue to enjoy my system over years to come. I hope for your sake you can do
the same.

Thanx again for all the joy you are making to me with amiga things. Have a nice
day, Amiga user. And you too, PC user, a long as your machine does what you want
from it.

Yours

Jernej

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                     e-mails: jernej.pecjak@kiss.uni-lj.si
                              future.tech@mrak.si
          Editor of Amiga Master, The Only Slovenian amiga magazine
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Running: A4000, 060/50Mhz, 1.7Gb Hard disk, Samsung 17" monitor,32Mb RAM
      System alert: Although I have 32 Mb RAM, I am not connected to Microsoft
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
              CHECK WWW AT: http://wet.kiss.uni-lj.si/~k4ff0030 !!!
------------------------------------------------------------------------------  


---------- END OF FORWARDED MESSAGE ----------

