--------- START OF FORWARDED MESSAGE ---------

From System ....: Internet
From Conference : comp.sys.amiga.misc
MessageID ......: <5d30ul$j7q@flood.xnet.com>
Originally from : Jason Compton <jcompton@typhoon.xnet.com>
Subject ........: Re: Microsoft was at the last Amiga auction in NYC

George Noel (gnoel@morgan.ucs.mun.ca) wrote:

: I have been thinking lately whether Miller Freeman Inc. had a payoff to
: get rid of their Video Toaster User and LightwavePRO magazines. Twice a
: year inserts and then down to nothing would put a dent in advertising and
: distribution of information about these products, along with the end of
: the expos etc.  But with Newtekniques, that should dhelp the community a
: bit.

No, George.  You've been wrong about all these conspiracies because you're
ignoring the biggest one of all--

There is a global conspiracy to make all Amiga users completely
unproductive!

Yes, you heard me right.  The conspiracy works like this: Several unnamed
major computer interests areound the world fund secret mind-alteration
projects to turn a small but vocal group of Amiga users into paranoid
maniacs!  These paranoid maniacs, who are unaware of their condition,
fabricate wild conspiracy theories out of thin air!  Soon, they spend all
of their time pondering these theories, taking breaks only to share them
with others.

Soon, these conspiracy theories are all Amiga users will talk about.
Their machines will lie dormant except to load up term programs and TCP
stacks so they can discuss MORE conspiracy theories.  The conspiracy
theories will grow and grow, and Amiga productive computing power
worldiwde will drop to zero.

Then, the aforementioned conspiracy consortium will have won.

-- 
Jason Compton                                  jcompton@xnet.com
Editor-in-Chief, Amiga Report Magazine         (847) 741-0689 FAX
AR on Aminet - docs/mags/ar???.lha             WWW - http://www.cucug.org/ar/
Pythagoras with the looking glass...           ...reflects the full moon.


---------- END OF FORWARDED MESSAGE ----------

