--------- START OF FORWARDED MESSAGE ---------

From System ....: Internet
From Conference : comp.sys.amiga.misc
MessageID ......: <6480.6976T1127T450@indy.net>
Originally from : Don Romero <d9090@indy.net>
Subject ........: Bloomberg Again..

Bloomberg Amiga Technology Commentary

    It's not even really news, but they still have their eye on the Amiga
    saga... An article so nice,they posted it twice!

{reprinted w/o permission}  

Bloomberg PERSONAL:Information Highway News
   Thu,  6 Feb 1997   5:06 PM EST
   

Amiga Computer Survives by Enthusiasts' Fervor: Technology Focus

     Chicago, Feb. 6 (Bloomberg) -- Legend has it that when the
late Jay Miner was developing his personal computer in the early
1980s, he looked to his dog for guidance. When Mitchy the
Pomeranian failed towag his tail in approval, that part of the
design wasscrapped.
     If that story's embellished, there's truth in another: Tens
of thousands of enthusiasts remain so smitten by Miner's elegant
machine that they're waiting out the company's turmoil and patch-
ing their aging computers rather than succumb to the Microsoft
Corp./Intel Corp. duopoly that powers most of the world's PCs.
     The saga of Apple Computer Inc.? No, Miner invented the
Amiga, a machine most folks today have never set eyes on. Yet,
the parallels to Apple's Macintosh can't be ignored. Dubbed
dazzling at its 1985 debut, a series of poor management decisions
and unexpected market forces has left the Amiga an orphan
technology entangled in a German bankruptcy court.
     ``The Amiga is like a John Wayne movie. It's been to hell
and back,'' said Dwight Parscale, president of NewTek Inc. NewTek
makes Video Toaster, an Amiga add-on used by hundreds of
television and video production studios for special effects.
     Another company, QuikPak Corp. of Norristown, Pennsylvania,
is the only one licensed to make the top-of-the-line version of
the Amiga used by filmmakers. It's made a bid for the company and
expects a decision by month's end.

                    Amigans Keep the Faith

     While the Amiga's trials proceed, an army of devotees, much
like Mac loyalists, keeps the faith.
     There's no machine like it for creating inexpensive special
effects and video manipulation, said NewTek's Parscale. The Star
Trek and Babylon 5 TV series have used it in their productions.
     The Internet is laced with Amiga Web sites and newsgroups
where users swap tips, gossip and encouragement. Hundreds, some
say thousands, of Amiga programs are available free or at a
nominal price over the Net.
     Amigans also form clubs to exchange ideas and sell or swap
scarce parts. At a recent meeting in Atlanta, an elderly woman
offered to sell an 8-year-old Amiga because, she reluctantly
admitted, she had been lured to an IBM clone. She had no problem
finding takers.
     Lamar Morgan, president of the Amiga Atlanta club, fancies
himself an evangelist spreading the ``Word of Amiga'' in a land
of PC infidels.
     ``There is a vicious war going on for the soul of the
computer user,'' Morgan said. ``The Amiga's story is not just
about a machine. It's about the people who made it and the people
who use it.''
                     California Roots

     Like Apple, the Amiga got its start in California. In 1982,
Miner and three others formed a company to design a video game
box to compete against the popular Atari, one of the first home
gaming systems that plugged into a TV.
     When development costs depleted seed capital, the founders
sold Amiga to Commodore International Ltd. in 1984 for $27
million in cash and stock. Miner, Mitchy and crew stayed.
     In mid-1985, a date of biblical proportions to the Amiga
faithful, the $1,295 Amiga 1000 computer was unveiled.
     Compared with the monaural sound, black-and-white Apple or
two-color International Business Machines Corp. computers of the
day, Amiga offered 4,096 colors, full-screen animation, four-
channel sound and a television connection. And, unlike the Atari
and other gaming machines, it was a full-fledged computer.
     ``Technologically, it's a dazzler,'' Time magazine wrote at
the time.

                    Trials and Tribulations

     Commodore's handling of the Amiga, however, was less than
stellar. By 1986, industry observers wondered if Commodore
fumbled by marketing the wunderkind machine as a toy. A lack of
software also didn't help.
     New Amiga models were introduced, but Commodore and others
were hurt by a deep slump in the computer industry. Commodore
filed for protection from creditors in May 1994 and liquidated
its assets. About two months later, Miner died.
     Germany's Escom in 1995 bought Commodore's assets for a
bargain-basement $6.6 million.
     Amigans rejoiced, but their joy was brief. The company went
into receivership in 1996 and sold its assets, including Amiga
Technologies GmbH.<BR>
     Visual Information Services Corp. of Chicago made a $40
million bid to acquire Amiga Technologies last year. That bid
dropped to $20 million after Escom filed for bankruptcy in July.
     Now VIScorp, whose Securities and Exchange Commission
documents say it can't generate enough cash flow from operations
to meet business obligations, won't be buying Amiga after all.
     So the technology rests in the hands of a German court-
appointed receiver and the hearts of the faithful.
     ``There is a danger of Amiga sliding, sliding away,'' said
Don Hicks, managing editor of Amazing Computing magazine, which
covers the Amiga world. ``It is a 10-year-old design, and we need
someone to own it long enough to make improvements.''


     As Amigans paste and solder their machines, privately held QuikPak
makes Amiga models for video professionals.   Dave Ziembicki, QuikPak
chief executive, said if QuikPak's bid for Amiga Technologies     
succeeds, the company will make modestly priced machines for the     
home.
     Meanwhile, Amigans the world over hang on. In Atlanta,
enthusiast Joe Torre put his 12-year-old Amiga 1000 through its
paces. He popped the top cover to reveal not only its original
virtues but his handyman efforts to maintain and upgrade the
system.
     He then pointed out an Amigan secret.
     On the plastic cover's inside are the signatures of the
Amiga's developers. Next to founder Jay Miner's handwriting is
the embossed paw print of Mitchy, his canine companion and
reputed computer design consultant.
     Maybe there is truth to some legends. And maybe the Amiga,
and Apple's Macintosh, will survive.
     After all, as Amiga evangelist Morgan says: ``It's about
beating the odds.''


--John Stebbins in the Chicago newsroom (312) 322-7296/gcr.

Copyright 1997, Bloomberg L.P.  All Rights Reserved.


---------- END OF FORWARDED MESSAGE ----------

