From: taylorj@gaia.ecs.csus.edu (Jon Taylor)
Newsgroups: comp.sys.amiga.misc
Subject: The Amiga is finally dying for real
Date: 9 Sep 1997 04:46:33 GMT
Organization: California State University Sacramento
Lines: 223
Message-ID: <slrn619l4c.1hu.taylorj@gaia.ecs.csus.edu>
Reply-To: taylorj@gaia.ecs.csus.edu
NNTP-Posting-Host: taylorj@gaia.ecs.csus.edu
X-Newsreader: slrn (0.9.3.2 UNIX)
Path: 195.95.96.10!news.unisource.be!planetinternet.be!newsgate.unisource.nl!newsgate.cistron.nl!het.net!Cabal.CESspool!bofh.vszbr.cz!news.maxwell.syr.edu!nntp.info.ucla.edu!134.139.1.31!csulb.edu!csus.edu!taylorj

	In this (very long) post, I hope to show convincingly that there
is no longer any market for Amigas, and that any attempt to revive,
reconstruct, or in any way bring back the glory days of the Amiga is
doomed to failure.  I have been waiting since the early nineties for the
Amiga to be reborn in some form, but I have come to the conclusion that
any chance for this has come and gone.  My reasons for thinking this way
are given below. 

	First, though, I want the readers of this group to know that I do
not dislike Amigas or Amiga users.  I used an Amiga for many many years,
learned a hell of a lot from it, and still think it is 'the coolest
computer ever'.  However, when in late 1997 I see people still trying to
promote them as a long-term viable general computing platform, a SERIOUS
reality check is in order.  So here goes.... 

	Broadly speaking, the computer market is divided up into three
submarkets: High-end workstations (usually UNIX-based), PCs (Windows or
Mac), and game consoles (supercomputers can be safely ignored here, I
think).  These divisions are a reflections of the types of people who
purchase computers and their needs - Highly technical folk such as 
scientists and engineers buy the high-priced proprietary workstations, 
businesses and the better-off hacker types or game players buy PCs, and 
Joe Sixpack buys an ultra-simple game console.

	Any chance the Amiga had of becoming a viable 'color macintosh'
and being used by business in any sort of serious bulk was dead and buried
by 1990.  What small segment of the business community would even then
have considered anything besides a windows PC then would have bought a
Macintosh.  And now?  Apple, which C= could never even have touched as far
as market presence, is on its deathbed.  Wintel has won, and no one
seriously considers any other sort of machine for general business
purposes.  Same for 'creative computing' and NTSC video massaging a la the
Video Toaster - Newtek has all but abandoned the Amiga, killing it in that
market.  Therefore, any Amiga successor which has more in common with the
old Amigas than the name would have to sell to either the high-end
workstation people or the Nintendo crowd.  There just isn't anywhere else
to go anymore. 

	In terms of customer profile, the Amiga never really was much more
than a game console with a keyboard.  The bulk of all Amiga sales, ever,
were A500-class machines, and they sold so many primarily because they
were cheap, powerful game-playing machines.  Hell, Jay Miner originally
designed the Amiga custom chips for use in a game console!  Those low-end
bulk sales were what kept C= from going belly-up in ~1989 instead of years
later.  

	Given this, the obvious thing for C= to have done in 1990 when it
became clear that Wintel would eventually take over all of its market
segment would have been to morph the Amiga into a killer game console.  At
the time it was still, in terms of hardware capability, quite superior to
the competition (SNES and Sega Genesis).  AGA would have given the Amiga a
commanding lead in the market, generating the revenue stream necessary for
further chipset development.  Instead, it made a half-assed (CD32) attempt
at this years after it should have been done, and it was practically
stillborn.  Nowadays we have the N64 and PSX, which are essentially
impossible for anything based on the Amiga (some would say anything else,
period) to compete with.  So, that market segment is now closed as well. 

	The only market segment left is the workstation market.  Forget 
it.  Not only is this market segment highly vertical and composed almost 
entirely of long-established players like HP, Sun, IBM, DEC, etc., but 
there is a real question about if this segment will even exist at all in 
five more years.  The wintel duopoly is very agressively moving into this 
market, and even if they aren't totally successful they will eat the 
low end off, further raising the barriers to entry.

	I have not mentioned network computers yet, primarily because I
don't see NCs as a distinct market segment from game consoles.  Drop a
JavaOS cartridge in a N64, attach a modem and you have a (good, fast) NC. 
Indeed, the only possible reason I can fathom for GW2K's purchase of the
Amiga technology is to rip out the AGA chipset, dump everything else
(including the OS) and slap it into an el cheapo NC.  I'm certain they
aren't under any illusions about being able to produce next-generation
Amiga *computers*, because they surely know that almost no one would buy
them aside from the few remaining Amiga fanatics with money.  

	At this point they'd have to rebuild the brand image from scratch,
just about, as well as overcoming *negative* brand-association with the
'Amiga' name as a 'toy' computer that people used when they were kids and
no one has even heard much about for years!  The very idea is ludicrous! 
Why would they do that when they can take the hardware and make an NC out
of it, and everyone will already know what an NC is anyway?  No one buys
anything but Wintel boxes or Macs anymore in enough quantity to make
selling them even close to worth it.  As a top-10 PC clone vendor, this
cannot have escaped GW2K.  They didn't get to their position in the PC
clone world by being anything but marketing gurus, and no one with any
marketing experience could possibly look over the past and current state
of the Amiga market and see anything salvageable. 

	They are, IMHO, almost certainly stringing the remaining Amiga
community along, counting on their fanatical (and quite mindless at this
stage) loyalty to the Amiga to sell enough A1200s and A4000s to recoup at
least some of their investment in the Amiga purchase.  This is very mean,
but it is also *VERY* smart marketing.  GW2K has had designs on the home
couch-potato market for years now (witness their Destination systems), and
since it has become obvious that NCs are what these folk will use, they
will be looking to get out of the gate early with their own NC.  The Amiga
purchase cannot possible make them any serious profits any other way, with
the possible addition of suing over licensing of the patents. 

	What about the A/Box?  Well, Capirhana would make a wondeful core
to build an NC around, but as far as Phase 5's plans to build a
full-fledged computer around it I am highly dubious.  Even if they manage
to not slip their development schedule anymore, they would then have to
decide if they *really* want to continue along the very shaky and
uncertain path of developing a full-fledged OS and producing a
full-fledged computer with dubious saleability, thereby taking a chance on
losing all the time, effort and money spent on developing Capirhana, or
they could decide to build their own NC around it or license it to OEMs,
thereby taking a potentially commanding lead in the soon to be
hyperbooming NC market.  It does NOT take a brain surgeon to see which is
the least risky path.  There will almost certainly never be an A/Box
computer, but I would be very surprised not to eventually see an NC with 
Phase5 chip technology of some kind in it.

	Finally, there is the matter of PIOS One.  This is the
future-Amiga development branch most likely to succeed, mostly because it
is actually based on real market analysis and does not depend on the Amiga
community for sales.  However, even with that I am still less than 50%
confident it will ever take off.  The future viability of the PowerPC/CHRP
platform, which looked pretty good for a while, is starting to not look so
good after all.  Apple may very well take the entire market down with it,
and at the very least Apple's current backpedaling on the cloning issue
has cast a cloud over the whole PPC field.  Also, as time goes by the
anti-Wintel forces are shifting their plan of attack to be based more and
more around NCs, further draining motivational energy out of this market
segment.  Also as time goes by, Intel (which now makes the motherboard,
CPU, and chipsets in all PCs sold) gets more and more time to catch up to
PPC/CHRP designs.  They started out in the early nineties with a hell of
technical lead over Intel and have managed to piss away almost all of it 
since then.  PPC CPUs may very well survive in NCs (likely, I would say), 
but the desktop computer aspect is looking increasingly grim.

	Forget the hardware, some of you will say.  AmigaOS will survive,
and that is what *really* is the soul of the Amiga.  Leaving aside the
question of whether it was the hardware, the OS or both (or neither!) that
constituted the soul of the Amiga, what possible market could there be for
an OS that has no virtual memory, is primarily written in 68k assembly and
is thus highly unportable, and which is optimized around a specific
hardware platform (OCS/ECS/AGA)?  The demand wouldn't be there, to put it
mildly.  Also, the only really viable nontraditional OS these days is
Linux, which already runs on damn near anything, is very technically
advanced, is currently developing at a very rapid pace, and is free. 
Kinda hard (impossible, maybe) to compete with that. 

	In sum, we are far beyond the point of no return for the Amiga or
any of its potential successors as any sort of long-term viable computing
platform.  If the Amiga had been quickly snapped up after Commodore's
demise by a well-run company that would have marketed the hell out of it
and moved forward on the hardware and the OS right away, MAYBE the Amiga
could have been saved.  But that did not happen, and everyone here knows
the painful soap opera that ensued instead.  That soap opera was the final
nail in the Amiga's coffin.  I suspected as much when things did not get 
resolved and moving forward soon after Commodore's demise, but now I am 
convinced.

	Too many users have moved on, too many software houses have folded
up shop or moved to Mac/Wintel (especially the game makers, which were
always the core of the Amiga software market), the Amiga has lost almost
all of what meager brand-name recognition it once had (especially in the
US), and the few remaining hardware vendors are quite obviously using (of
course they will deny this - they have to in order to keep Amigans buying
their products for just a *little* longer) the remaining Amiga users with
purchasing power to refine their peripheral designs a little bit more
before jumping into the PCI-based (and many, many times more lucrative and
*stable*) Wintel component market.  What marketing director in their right
mind could possible see anything salvageable in all of this chaos and
wreckage?  

	The fanatical devotion of the Amiga community carried the window
of viability of the platform forward for years, but the batteries look to
be finally, slowly, and painfully wearing out.  The technically-minded
folk on csam seems to have realized this and left for greener pastures,
as evidenced by the DRAMATIC fall in the quality of technical arguments I
have seen here.  When I was an Amiga geek, way back when, we may have been
put down by the PC morons but at least they didn't fault us for our
technical knowledge.  In contrast, I lost count of the number of
anti-PC/pro-Amiga arguments I saw in csam during my recent readthrough
where the pro-Amiga folk quite obviously knew very little about the
current state of PC hardware, or for that matter the current state of
ANYTHING other than the Amiga market.

	This was incredibly depressing to me, because it tells me that the
*real* 'soul of the Amiga' - the community of knowledgeable Amiga hackers
- is finally dying for real, with no new blood to replace those who leave. 
It is becoming stagnant and inbred, a sure sign of a dying community. 
Watching people trying over and over again to revive the Amiga *as a
computer*, which is NOT going to happen, is a lot like like watching a
punch-drunk boxer in the 11th round, staggering and lurching around the
ring with his gloves mostly in front of his face to ward off his
opponent's incessant pummeling and occasionally taking a wild swing and
missing.  He's quite obviously going to lose by decision no matter what he
does, but he just won't go down and spare himself the pain of having his
ass kicked all through the 12th round as well. 

	Why the hell are you folks continuing to prolong this painful
farce?  Let my beloved Amiga die with what little dignity it has left, for
christ's sake!  Have some dignity yourselves!  At least GW2K might be able
to take AGA and make a killer, cheap NC out of it.  I'd buy one for sure,
even if it wasn't the best on the market, for sentimental reasons if
nothing else.  At least the Amiga could go out with a bang rather than a 
whimper.

Jon


P.S.	If (as I suspect) most of you are really hanging on because you
get a charge out of being in the small, isolated group that is sure they
know the One True Way (TM), you'd get a hell of a lot more positive
feedback from becoming a Linux hacker.  The Linux/free-software community
is going to give it to Microsoft (and most of the rest of the commercial
software industry) up the ass with a tent peg over the coming years, and I
consider it to be quite a suitable form of revenge most richly deserved
for their shoddy treatment of the Amiga throughout its life.  Even the
Amiga could not have been as fundamentally revolutionary as free software,
which may very well wipe out ALL commercial software of any kind
whatsoever!  The only analog to the electric, fast-moving, and just plain 
righteous spirit of communal hackerdom that permeates the Linux community 
right now that I can recall are the 'glory days' (1985-~1990) of the 
Amiga community.  You DO have a home, if you choose to go there.



