
DoubleClick Frequently Asked Questions
--------------------------------------

Last Updated: 3.3.98

Contents
--------

1. Introduction, History, etc.
   1.1 What is DoubleClick?
   1.2 Who Produces DoubleClick?
   1.3 How Did DC Begin?
   1.4 What if I Want to Contribute?
   1.5 How Can I Contact DC?

2. The Mag Itself.
   2.1 What Articles Are in DC?
   2.2 What Else is in DC?
   2.3 Is There a Letters Page?
   2.4 I Disagree With Your Comments!
   2.5 Why Are You So Anti-PC?

3. Distribution, Availability, etc.
   3.1 How Often is the Mag Released?
   3.2 Where Can I Get the Mag From?
   3.3 How Do I Know a New Issue Has Been Released?
   3.4 In What Formats is the Mag Released?
   3.5 Is the Mag Freeware?
   3.6 Is DC Allowed to be Included on CD ROMs?
   3.7 Can I Use Articles in DC Separately (eg, in Other Mags)?

----------------------------------------------------------------------------

1. Introduction, History, etc.
   1.1 What is DoubleClick?
DoubleClick (DC) is an e-zine for the Amiga, distributed in HTML and 
AmigaGuide formats. Articles include tutorials, news, views, reviews, 
information, etc regarding the Amiga, and computing in general. There are 
also some articles not related to computing.
   1.2 Who Produces DoubleClick?
DC was initially begun by editor Mark Harman, and he is still in charge of 
putting the mag together, and writing a vast amount of the articles. Since 
issue three, Stephen Graham has been a major contributor of articles, 
graphics and ideas, and he has been co-editor since issue four. We have had 
lots of people contributing articles, as well as things like graphics and 
modules. We have also begun to recruit some dedicated article writers, look 
out for more on this soon...
   1.3 How Did DC Begin?
Initially, DoubleClick was going to be a joint Amiga/Mac diskmag, started 
along with my friend, Steph. But this never went anywhere - but I carried on 
anyway with an Amiga diskmag, and the name DoubleClick had already stuck (to 
program/file names, in text documents, on graphics logos, etc). As a 
consequence, there is also a totally independant Mac mag in existance also 
going by the name of DoubleClick, but I think it's only distributed within a user group.
   1.4 What if I Want to Contribute?
Then write/email and tell us! Or just send us the material anyway (anonymous 
submissions are accepted, if you prefer...)
   1.5 How Can I Contact DC?
More information in the mag itself, but here are the addresses:
   Mark Harman
   Trinity Hall
   Cambridge
   (UK)
   CB2 1TJ
   email: mdwh2@cam.ac.uk
   web:   members.tripod.com/~Mark_Harman
OR:
   Stephen Graham
   PO Box 8353
   Largs
   North Ayrshire
   Scotland
   (UK)
   KA30 8HG
   email: stephen_graham@bigfoot.com

2. The Mag Itself.
   2.1 What Articles Are in DC?
Currently we have sections for News, Tutorials, Reviews, Views, Information 
and From the Web. We also feature non-computer related articles, 
particularly humour. We welcome articles of any kind, including those not 
related to computers (although, we would prefer computer related articles).
   2.2 What Else is in DC?
We also have sections for graphics and modules. The graphics section depends 
on people sending us material, but if we don't receive any modules, we'll 
use some from the public domain. We also occasionally supply things like 
samples, fonts, etc. If you have ideas for more material, then please tell 
us.
   2.3 Is There a Letters Page?
There would be! Although we have had letters from readers, none have been of 
the sort that you'd put in the mag. If you have views you'd like to share 
with other readers (but can't stretch to an article on the matter), then 
write to us, indicating you want it to be on the Letters Page. Also, if you 
have a question on an Amiga related subject, then write to us also, and 
we'll see if we can help.
   2.4 I Disagree With Your Comments!
If you mean you disagree with somebody's opinion, then feel free to write in 
(either as a Letter, or an Article in its own right). We want to hear 
everyone's viewpoint. If you mean you disagree over a factual point, then 
please write and tell us. We all make mistakes sometimes...
   2.5 Why Are You So Anti-PC?
In these dark days, there has to be a few places which are anti-PC... Really 
though, we try to be more 'Pro-Amiga' than 'Anti-PC', although naturally, 
there's a lot of anti-Microsoft/Windoze that appears as a result. If you 
wanted to read some well thought out and structured arguments against the 
Amiga, you'd read some good quality magazine like Channel 4's Digitiser 
(cough). I take it that most of our readers are Amiga users, and I want to 
keep it that way; if any users of other platforms are reading, it will mean 
they think more highly of the machine.

3. Distribution, Availability.
   3.1 How Often is the Mag Released?
When we get around to it... It tends to be every three months or so. If you 
have Internet access, you'll get new issues much quicker than if not.
   3.2 Where Can I Get the Mag From?
See the mag itself for more details... Each issue is now uploaded to Aminet 
into docs/mags (the filename begins 'DC'). We will try to send each issue to 
Amiga Format and CU Amiga Magazine for their CoverCDs. It can also be 
downloaded from Mark's homepage (members.tripod.com/~Mark_Harman). We will 
soon have it available on its own website, so you can read it online. If you 
don't have Internet access, or a CD drive, you can write to us sending a 
couple of disks and an SAE, and we'll send the latest version. We also offer 
a subscription service where we send out the latest version as it is 
released - see the mag for details.
   3.3 How Do I Know a New Issue Has Been Released?
If you are eager to get each new issue, then it can be annoying to 
continually check websites, or Aminet. For those with Internet access, we 
offer two new services. See the mag for more details, but you can either 
have us email each new issue to you as it is produced, or if you prefer, we 
can send you a small email telling you when a new issue is ready (so you can 
download it or look at it when you like). If you're interested, just email 
Mark (mdwh2@cam.ac.uk).
   3.4 In What Formats is the Mag Released?
Currently in HTML and AmigaGuide formats. The HTML version requires a hard 
disk, as well as OS3.0+, 2MB Chip RAM to run a web browser. When you 
download from the internet, you'll just get the HTML files, but on the disk 
version, we also supply a local only demo of AWeb 3, in case you don't have 
a web browser. The AmigaGuide version requires OS2.0+. Note that if you 
download the guide version from the Internet, you WILL require a hard disk. 
If you don't have a hard disk, then get the disk version, which can be run 
from floppy (although hard disk installation is still preferable). The HTML 
is far better to the AmigaGuide in terms of presentation of course, but the 
AmigaGuide version has all the text there.
   3.5 Is the Mag Freeware?
Yes, we want it to be spread far and wide! Not that this doesn't mean the 
mag is copyright free - it isn't! You are only allowed to charge enough to 
cover disk and postage costs, if necessary.
   3.6 Is DC Allowed to be Included on CD ROMs?
Yes, we encourage it.
   3.7 Can I Use Articles in DC Separately (eg, in Other Mags)?
You must write and ask us first, but we'll be unlikely to object (as long as 
you credit us and DoubleClick, of course).
