--------- START OF FORWARDED MESSAGE ---------

From System ....: Internet
From Conference : comp.sys.amiga.misc
MessageID ......: <5kne41$sf1$2@news.mountain.net>
Originally from : Tim DeWitt <casper1@access.mountain.net> <610474209>
Subject ........: Re: NEW PRESS RELEASE FROM GATEWAY 2000 :)

well i enjoyed it,...but truthfully,...The Amiga really dosent need this 
type of bad publicity at this moment!


George Noel (gnoel@morgan.ucs.mun.ca) wrote:
:           
:   Gateway 2000 leaks information
:   On the future direction the Amiga
:   Will take.
:          
:  
:   North Sue City, S.D., May 5, 1997 - Gateway 2000 Inc.
:   (previously Nasdaq: GATE) today surprisingly announced
:   their company's plans for the future to promote the Amiga
:   and the new role it will take in the industry. "We just
:   couldn't let this new opportunity go by," said Mr. Ricky
:   Sider, president and COO of Gateway 2000. "With the recent
:   success and much hyped episode of Ellen on ABC TV breaking
:   new ground in the TV industry, we felt this idea should be
:   brought over to the computer industry. What better computer
:   for it to happen to then the Amiga?" Mr. Sider continued to
:   comment. Amiga led the industry in combining computer
:   graphics, animation, and film sequences with stereo sound
:   known today as multimedia. "The computer industry is so
:   male oriented, that we now wanted to attract a new customer
:   base and lead the industry once again with this new path
:   forward," Mr. Sider noted.

:   In a surprise announcement, Mr. Sider finally revealed how
:   they will market the Amiga computer for the future. "That is
:   right, the Amiga will become the first functioning lesbian
:   computer on the market!" To this, the attending audience
:   of press agents, news reporters, tech junkies and Amiga
:   fanatics exploded in an uproar of cheers and applause. 
:   "We've been following the Amiga movement for 12 years now,"
:   said Mr. Ricky Sider, "and we always wondered exactly why
:   the name meant "Girl friend" in Spanish.  Upon talking to
:   Pedro Tisktiskschenko, he explained it all to us. "You didn't
:   think it a coincidence that the main three chips in the
:   Amiga were named Agnus, Paula and Denise did you?" asked
:   Pedro T. "All along they were doing MUCH MORE then just
:   graphics, video and audio under that cover! And
:   Multitasking? You don't know the meaning of multitasking
:   until you see these three babes in action!" Of course
:   these chips changed their names in future incarnations to
:   prevent anyone realizing what they really were. When asked
:   about the presence of the Gary chip, Pedro T. simply
:   replied: "Well Barbie has Ken also, don't she! And we ALL
:   know about Ken!" Mr. Tisktiskschenko walked off laughing
:   uncontrollably and mumbling to himself how he had saved the
:   Amiga once more.

:   Mr. Dull EL. Larson of IAM  happened to be strolling by and 
:   we had to fight to get him to give us a few comments. "I
:   think this is great news for the future of the Amiga," Mr.
:   Larson exclaimed! "Not only will it attract fresh meat into
:   the community but it will give all those current male users
:   something to dream about for awhile.  We all know what the
:   ultimate male fantasy is when we are talking two or more
:   girls!" Mr. Larson continued, "Besides all that, it should
:   prove us interesting here at IAM.  We already have new ideas
:   for new SOFTware products, our book of Internet Erotica
:   should now get some more publicity and those secret videos
:   of "The Dancing Fools" should really fit into the equation
:   now. I expect to see sales go through the roof over the
:   next little while." As we were finishing our conversation,
:   we tried to get some information as to why exactly Dull
:   Larson chose the acronym of IAM for his business and if he
:   too wanted to share something with the public. Afterall,
:   Mellissa Etheridge called the title of her new album "Yes,
:   I Am" whe she too came out of the closest. Mr. Larson
:   declined to comment on this and to exactly why he has a
:   fascination of offering Boing! BALLS decals with every
:   sale from his store.

:   "This new path is good news for Gateway and customers of
:   AMIGA," said Ricky Sider, and it gives new meaning to
:   his earlier statement in a previous press release on how
:   the purchase of the Amiga "Will strengthen our 
:   intellectual property POSITION and INVIGORATE a company
:   that has been a pioneer in multimedia solutions and
:   operating SYSTEMS technology". "We not only plan on
:   introducing it back into the mainstream department
:   stores but also smaller, female clothing stores,
:   hairdressers and it will be the main computer Ellen
:   uses on her TV in the future for millions of fans to
:   see," Mr. Sider continued.  The thought of Ellen
:   carressing the Amiga's keys every week, I must admit,
:   does sound appealing, even to me.
:           
:   Members from a grassroots MOVEMENT known as the "Arouse
:   Initiative" were on hand attending the press conference
:   but not much could be gotten in the way of comments
:   from these guys.  All that was known about them was
:   that they will be approaching Gateway 2000 in the
:   future to share in some ideas and that the members of
:   their group get incredibly turned on about the HARDware
:   they are using and proposed new HARDWARE COMBINATIONS
:   for future Amiga computers, clones and compatibles.
:   Perhaps that is why they decided to sit while everyone
:   else stood for a standing ovation to the announcements.  
:   As I was walking away, I heard some mumbling about the
:   LOOK and FEEL being more important to them though.
:   Another group known as the "Gay Miners Society" was
:   also present. These guys were more vocal and when I
:   approached the HEAD guy Georges Gomez, this is what he
:   had to say: "I don't know exactly why we are here. We
:   are Miners for crying out loud but the overall theme
:   suited us and we thought it was a good idea to attend
:   and get HOOKED up with a lot of the main Amiga notables
:   to see what possible ACTION we can take to help them
:   achieve their goals for the future." "Perhaps we can
:   get our members to mine the ore and minerals needed to
:   create the computers in the first place and then help
:   pay to make sure they get to where they need to go,"
:   continued Mr. Gomez, "But if there is any trouble,
:   certain members will have to be left behind before
:   the whole mine collaspses."  Apparently their job is
:   very time consuming and they couldn't comment on
:   anything else to us.

:   Mr. Ricky Sider ended off the day by indicating that,
:   "Since our marketing campaign involving cows (and
:   thats a whole new news TIP) was so successful, we
:   are continuing this idea with the Amiga.  From now on
:   Amigas will be shipped in white boxes with pink
:   triangles on them." "We also hope all Amiga users
:   worldwide who haven't used their computers in awhile
:   will also take THEM *out of the closet*." In another
:   surprise, Mr. Sider also announced how their symbol
:   on the NASDAQ has changed from GATE to GAY2KAY.

:   About Gateway 2000
:   Gateway 2000, Inc., is a company that made a Fortune.
:   It was found in 1985 (by accident, surely), and is a
:   global leader in the direct marketing of Political
:   inCorrectness (PCs for short). The company,
:   headquartered in North Sue City, South Dakota, was
:   recently FLOODED with mail of thanks for purchasing
:   the Amiga and with idea for future things to include
:   in it. The company employs over 9,700 people worldwide
:   (a number we feel they made up to reflect the year of
:   this press conference. Last year they employed over 9,600
:   people). Gateway 2000 products and services consistently
:   win tips and special rewards from leading industry
:   publications (mainly when their journalists are in a
:   local bar in a drunken stupor). In 1996, the company
:   shipped 1.9 million systems but don't know where they
:   went to yet they reported revenues of $5 billion and net
:   income of $250 million. Bill Gates didn't appear to have
:   anything to do with this but Microsoft Windows did seem
:   to be the major fault in causing this confusion.
:           
:   About AMIGA
:   Since the introduction of the AMIGA 1000 in 1985, AMIGA has
:   represented the body of efficient use of her memory and
:   having a sensual hard drive capacity, while pioneering
:   industry developments in multimedia, 32dd-bit multitasking
:   and autofigure-fixation.
:           
:   For additional information, you will have to wait for the next
:   WOA (now being renamed WHOA! due to the new announcement)
:   taking place in London, England or until the next speech is
:   ripped and transposed on the Internet.
:           
:   http://www.gay2kay.com 
:           
:   MEDIA CONTACT: Angela Peabody, Corporate Communications, (605)
:           426-4299.

: ------------------------------------------------

: I hope you enjoyed it! :)

: -=*George*=-




---------- END OF FORWARDED MESSAGE ----------

