--------- START OF FORWARDED MESSAGE ---------

From System ....: Internet
From Conference : comp.sys.amiga.misc
MessageID ......: <3134.7077T1134T2491@cochran.dungeon.com>
Originally from : Phillip A.Cochran <phillip@cochran.dungeon.com> <611528089>
Subject ........: WOA - my 2 pence

Just got back from the WOA and wanted to share my experience.

First off; as I'm an American who's suddenly found himself living in Suffolk
County I was a bit apprehensive in getting there. But after talking to a few
friends it turned out that it was easier than I thought; a quick drive down
to Red Bridge, hop on the "Tube", quick change of trains at Liverpool
station and Hammersmith was at the end of the line. 5 pounds round trip.

Then it was off to finding the Novetel. hmph! :(  Anyone for putting up a
sign or two on the tube side of the street? NOOOOO! After a backtrack and a
sharp eye I spied a small sign. Then following a couple of guys "who looked
like Amiga-owners" I came upon the entrance. 8 pounds later a was thrust
into a area that was three times too small for the amount of people crammed
into it. One couldn't walk more than five feet before having to stop and
watch (if one could see) what the people on front of you had stopped to look
at.

I was able to spend twenty pounds and pick up a few brochures in less than
an hour. It was too tempting to give some stuff a try when it only cost 3
pounds a shot.

I then started to look for a large demonstration area where some "expert"
would be showing the latest and greatest, as well as a few tips, on a large
screen television. Preferably with the expert and equipment on a stage so
that everyone could see and hear him.

Nope. Nada. Nuddin'.

'OK', I thought, 'maybe I'll just slip into the crowd in front of a booth
and see what's going on'. hmph! Not without a can-opener or deadly weapon I
wasn't.

After an couple of hours of wandering around I decided that this
"flea-market masquerading as a computer show" wasn't going to get any better
So I left.

High-lights: I found out that the London subway system is a great way to get
around. Okay, not "great" but better than trying to drive and finding a
parking space.

Low-lights: This was not a "Show". It was a bunch of people hawking their
wares wether it be ancient titles or taking orders for "beta-ware". I call
these things flea-markets in the US. Boot-sales in the UK. ("Boot" means car
trunk over here, you colonialists.)

Suggestions:
 1) Get a larger room!
 2) Put on some demo's using a stage and equipment so that a large group of
    people could see what is happening. You might even want to try something
    radical and use (gasp!) PA equipment.
 3) Get a larger room!
 4) Don't assume that everyone knows where the convention hall is going to
    be. Get a couple of mags to print small maps of the immediate area.
 5) Get a larger room!
 6) Plan for a warm room and start cooling it early. Especially if a few
    people are goinng to turn on (gasp! again) heat-producing equipment.
 7) Get a....
 8) Don't put it on during the Cup final (soccer championships, fellow yanks)

Caveat: I'm not a "large-crowd-lovin' guy" so maybe I was expecting more
than the shows producers could handle.

Worth it? Sure. Should of done it? Yep. Do better next time? I hope so.


--
#Phillip A.Cochran          phillip@cochran.dungeon.com
Proud owner of Gateway2000's new OS - The Amiga. The Survivor.#
--


---------- END OF FORWARDED MESSAGE ----------

