--------- START OF FORWARDED MESSAGE ---------

From System ....: Internet
From Conference : de.comp.sys.amiga.misc
MessageID ......: <zpba2caFuF4YZ5b@f27.freeway.shnet.org>
Originally from : Michael Schulz <M.SCHULZ@FREEWAY.shnet.org> <610755860>
Subject ........: Erste PPC-Soft von Cloanto

Software für das PowerUp Board von Phase5:
Blitter-Emulation für PersonalPaint V7.0 
Es folgt ein Auszug aus dem Readme.

-----------------------

Short:        Personal PPC Blit Library v. 2.0
Type:         biz/cloan
Distribution: Only Cloanto, Aminet and Aminet CD-ROM

FILES BEING UPDATED

  - personal_ppc_blit.library

DESCRIPTION

This CPU blitting library is used by programs like Personal Paint when
the "Settings/Graphics/Amiga Blitter" setting is switched off.

This library automatically detects a CyberGraphX 40.100+ environment,
and informs the client software (e.g. Personal Paint) that it is safe to
allocate Fast RAM instead of Chip RAM even if the memory has to be
accessed by the graphics.library. CyberGraphX "clones", which have a
parallel system of version numbers, are detected and will not trigger
this condition, as this would currently crash the system.

This library uses the PowerPC CPU to emulate a 32-bit blitter, whereas
all libraries prior to version 2.0, like the original Amiga, worked with a
16-bit blitter model. This release is about twice as fast as the 1.x
libraries. In particular, a simulation of average blitter operations
of this PowerPC version tested on a PowerUP board with a 603p CPU running
at 150 MHz, resulted in a software blitter more than twice as fast as the
AGA Amiga hardware blitter, with the advantage of not requiring precious
Chip RAM.

Additional functionality has been integrated in this library to better
support future programs.

This blitting library requires the "ppc.library" to be present in the
system, plus a PowerPC kernel compatible with the version released by
Phase 5.


NOTES

Visit the Cloanto web site at <http://www.cloanto.com> for the latest news.

Your feedback is very appreciated. E-mail: <support@cloanto.com>.

Please support our continued Amiga development efforts by preferring
original software (in plain English: buy Personal Paint).



---------- END OF FORWARDED MESSAGE ----------

