--------- START OF FORWARDED MESSAGE ---------

From System ....: Internet
From Conference : comp.sys.amiga.misc
MessageID ......: <5m4tgt$mua$1@nntp02.primenet.com>
Originally from : Alexander W. Dorn <awdorn@primenet.com> <611964541>
Subject ........: Re: What GW2k and Petro DIDN'T say..

Gilles Bourdin <gbo@internet.de> wrote:

>> I may have missed some subtleties, but what DID he say??
>> Was this the grand announcement we've been waiting for for months??
>> Extreme disappointment.

>So what do you guys expect them to tell you on such an event where they
>can for the first time make public that they have bought the company?

>Did you expect the tech specs for the next PPC Gw_Amiga with 256 bit bus and
>triple PPC module board?

>Get real.

What would have been nice to have heard was :

Begin Quote

"Ladies and Gentlemen,

While many have claimed that the Amiga was a dead platform, we, here,
know better than that.  If the recent purchase of Amiga Technologies,
now Amiga International, were mearly an attempt to bring a dead
platform back to life, then their would be no problem, no difficulty
at all.

Ladies and Gentlemen, the Amiga is far from dead, it has been growing
and evolving for nearly a year since Escom GmbH went bankrupt.  You,
the Amiga Enthusiasts, have kept this remarkable machine alive.

But to be blunt, the rest of the Computer Industry has been working
hard, trying to catch up with the Amiga.  They have done a very
effective job, catching up with the Amiga, well, with the Amiga of
1985!

(Audience Laughter)

The truth is, the Amiga is begining to show it's age, and it is now my
privelage to lay out for you the plans we intend to follow to bring
the Amiga back to the cutting-edge in computer technology.

 As soon as we can get the personell organized, we shall begin, as
promptly as possible, the port of the AmigaOS over to native PowerPC
Code, and to include in this port the ability, at the OS level, to
support true RISC processing-using multiple processors.  This, we
believe, will be the future of the Amiga Platform.

Until we have a working design for a PPC Machine, and until we have a
fully-operational PPC AmigaOS, we will support Phase 5's PowerUp
Program (with the potential plan of selling A4000Ts and A1200s with
PowerUp Boards in them already?!) and work to allow the AmigaOS to
conform to the CHRP Standards that PIOS has designed their machines
to.

By the end of the year, we will also provide a new version of the
current 68k Amiga Operating System, with a few features that are
required by today's computer industry, such as Memory Protection.  We
shall work with Phase 5, to allow this feature to work with both 68k
and PPC software.

(This one was reported in a "rumors" section of a WOA show report,
which I read off of the Amiga Web Directory
(www.cucug.org/amiga.html), and memory protection would be an
important addition to the AmigaOS, not necessarily because it's
necessary to this OS, but because, acording to rumors, NewTek does not
want to continue developing an Amiga version until the Amiga can offer
MP - I guess their programmers are getting a little lazy now days?!?)

Speaking of Phase 5, we intend to licence the Amiga Operating System
to Phase 5, so that they can develop a specialized version of it for
their new workstation, known as the A/Box.  We shall work together
closely to try and insure that software developed to run under the
AmigaOS shall be fully compatable with such a high-performance
platform.

In the future, we also hope to offer the tools and resources to make
the AmigaOS available to many other high-end platforms, such as DEC
Alpha-based and HP-Risc-based Workstations, as well as a
next-generation Amiga Chip-set that will allow future Amiga platforms
to truely be pushing the envelope in computer technology.

We shall strictly hold licenseholders to keep to a standard, which we
shall set, with the advice and cooperation of software developers.
Our goal is to allow the AmigaOS to run on many platforms, but we want
to make it possible to allow software to be ported from platform to
platform with as little difficulty as possible.

Through broad licenceing of the Amiga Operating System, we hope to
provide computer user with a very powerful operating system that is
both easy to use and understand, and easy on the computer platforms
that it shall run on, not requiring workstation-like hardware to run
simple productivity applications, such as Word-Processors and
Spreadsheets.

The future of the Amiga is very bright, indeed.  And as we set forward
in carrying out this plan of action, we shall remember, their is only
one reason we are able to do this, and it is because of the continued
support we have gotten from you, the Amiga Community.

Thank you again, Ladies and Gentlemen."

End Quote.

I understand, to some point, why they did not make a lot of promises,
and I have a few suspicions as to reasons they did not say some of the
above, but it would have been extremely cool to have heard at least
some of the above.


---------- END OF FORWARDED MESSAGE ----------

