--------- START OF FORWARDED MESSAGE ---------

From System ....: Internet
From Conference : comp.sys.amiga.misc
MessageID ......: <5cpndaINNlp2@maz4.sma.ch>
Originally from : Valerio Ortelli <orv@unconfigured.xvnews.domain>
Subject ........: SASSENRATH LAVA !!!

[Image]           Eruptions Happen: LAVA

                  A Compact, Portable Language

                  By Carl Sassenrath
                  30-Jan-1997

                  ----------------------------------------------------------

                       Personal Computing is about getting a computer
                       to do what you need done - not about conforming
                       to some obscure, bureaucratic, hacker's notion
                       of how to make that happen (C++, Windows, etc.)

                  ----------------------------------------------------------

                  What Is LAVA?

                  LAVA is a solution-oriented language. It is designed, not
                  for engineers laboring on complex systems, but for the
                  rest of us who require a smart, practical approach to
                  solving a wide range problems that we face daily in the
                  operation of our computers. The primary guiding principle
                  behind LAVA is for it to be:

                       An easy-to-use, powerful, efficient, and
                       portable language for creating small graphical,
                       audio, multimedia, network, and control
                       applications running on microcomputer systems.

                  LAVA is a new language. Its name was originally picked to
                  stand for Language for Audio Visual Applications.

                  LAVA is not Java, nor is it related in any way to Java,
                  C, or C++. LAVA was created with a different set of
                  objectives in mind: simple, easy, small, and more
                  (below).

                  ----------------------------------------------------------

                  What's It For?

                  LAVA is intended for what is called "programming in the
                  small". It is useful for solving problems, writing
                  scripts, creating applications, communicating between
                  computers, and controlling hardware that do not warrant
                  the "programming in the large" attitude of C, C++, Java,
                  Ada, and other such computer languages.

                  The idea is to provide a simple tool which you can use to
                  satisfy a range of personal computer needs, without
                  requiring a half dozen other languages. LAVA gives you a
                  single approach to creating:

                     * Shell (CLI or Batch) Scripts
                       LAVA provides a more consistent and flexible
                       approach to writing shell scripts for any kind of
                       operation.

                     * Simple Applications
                       Although good for scripts, LAVA has enough power to
                       create applications like editors, file browsers,
                       multimedia presentations, modem dialers, address
                       lists, and more.

                     * Configuration Scripts
                       LAVA is perfect for controlling system startup,
                       application initialization, resource management,
                       icon parameters (.info files), hardware/driver
                       control, network interfaces, whatever.

                     * Small Databases and "Resource Files"
                       LAVA can handle data just as well as it handles
                       functions (commands), which is useful for storing
                       program resources, phone directories, keyboard
                       shortcuts, web site lists, money ledgers, geographic
                       locations, file collections, and more.

                     * System and Application Preferences
                       Rather than storing preferences in binary, they can
                       be stored as LAVA, giving you a means of inspecting
                       and editing them in a fashion consistent with other
                       scripts.

                     * Inter-Process Communication (IPC, Messages)
                       LAVA can be used as a simple messaging protocol for
                       control and communication between independent
                       processes whether they be on the same CPU, parallel
                       processors, or distributed across a network.

                     * Network Communications
                       Writing web sites in LAVA puts HTML to shame...
                       giving you much greater presentation power (screen
                       oriented rather than document oriented), a more
                       consistent and flexible style (easier to write),
                       better resource utilization (like client-side image
                       processing), and smaller downloads (not verbose like
                       HTML). In addition, both the client and the server
                       could run LAVA, offering new depth in distributed,
                       interactive applications.

                     * Custom Shells (Command Line Interpreter, CLI)
                       Use LAVA in interactive mode as a versatile shell.
                       Easily add your own operations and custom features
                       or entirely roll your own approach to interaction.

                     * Graphical User Interfaces (GUI, Workbench, Desktop,
                       etc.)
                       Extend your graphical interface (screen layouts,
                       icon displays, file selectors, requestors, dialog
                       boxes, etc.) or carve your own using flexible and
                       consistent techniques and functions provided by
                       LAVA.

                     * Cut, Copy, and Paste Clipboard
                       Storing data in a standard, easy to use format for
                       cut, copy, and paste is a natural in LAVA.

                  ----------------------------------------------------------

                  LAVA Objectives

                  LAVA was developed to strike a balance among the
                  following fundamental objectives. They were kept in mind
                  throughout the design and implementation stages and still
                  serve to guide future enhancements and extensions.

                     * Productive
                       Simple programs must be simple. In just a few lines
                       a user should be able to draw a graphic image, play
                       an audio segment, render text lines, access a
                       database, load a file from the network, etc.
                       Programs should be easy to create (without a lot of
                       clutter, complex include files, special definitions)
                       and easy to modify.

                     * Consistent
                       The LAVA syntax and grammar must be minimal and
                       consistent - to the point that it should only take a
                       five page tutorial to teach new users the basic
                       components of the language.

                     * Compact
                       The LAVA system and LAVA programs must be small
                       enough to run on a wide variety of systems including
                       personal computers, network servers, set-top boxes,
                       laptops, kiosks, and special purpose systems (like
                       embedded controllers).

                     * Powerful
                       The expressibility of LAVA must surpass that of
                       traditional scripting and programming languages.
                       LAVA should permit the intermixing of code and data
                       to allow the user to create "dialects" or
                       "sub-languages" of a data-driven nature.

                     * Portable
                       Programs written in LAVA must be shielded from the
                       oddities of various operating systems. A program
                       written for the Amiga must be able to run without
                       modification on the PC, the Macintosh, or any other
                       system.

                     * Open
                       LAVA scripts are to be distributed in source code
                       form. This is the key that made the World Wide Web a
                       success overnight - it allowed all authors to learn
                       from the work of others. It also gives users a way
                       to enhance program features, fix defective programs,
                       and inspect code for viruses.

                     * Rapid
                       LAVA must translate (compile) and execute quickly.
                       This does not mean that LAVA code will run as fast
                       as native code (C or assembly), it simply means that
                       we should never have to wait for our computers to do
                       simple tasks (which is what computers are doing most
                       of the time.)

                     * Extensible
                       LAVA should support a mechanism for adding primitive
                       (native) functions to the language for special types
                       of environments (like embedded control systems).

                  ----------------------------------------------------------

                  LAVA Temperatures

                  There are a few varieties of LAVA, depending on your
                  needs and requirements:

                     * LAVA
                       The basic LAVA language, including the translator
                       (compiler) and execution environment. It is useful
                       for scripts, configuration, shells, file
                       manipulation, etc. Because of its small size, it is
                       excellent for small control systems (e.g. embedded
                       controllers). Also good for educational purposes.

                     * Hot LAVA
                       The network enabled version of LAVA for use on
                       TCP/IP local area or wide area networks (including
                       the Internet). Provides client side protocol support
                       for http (World Wide Web), ftp (remote file
                       transfer), mailto (email), and lava (new) protocols.
                       LAVA programs can be distributed using existing
                       World Wide Web servers and interconnectivity without
                       modification.

                     * Molten LAVA
                       The multimedia enabled version of LAVA. Supports
                       graphics, sound, music, video (clips and movies),
                       video effects, sequencing, timing, and event
                       handling. Provides support for graphical user
                       interfaces, presentation systems, media authoring
                       and editing.

                     * Hot Molten LAVA
                       Provides all of the above in a single system. The
                       networked, multimedia version of LAVA. Its uses are
                       only limited by your imagination.

                     * Magma O.S.
                       A compact, efficient multitasking operating system
                       which fully integrates LAVA for use in
                       configuration, scripting, messaging, IPC, databases,
                       etc. (and other areas as mentioned above.)

                  ----------------------------------------------------------

                  Supported Platforms

                  LAVA is portable by design. It is our intention to make
                  LAVA available to everyone - even users with older
                  computers (for instance, I've got several 1MB CDTVs that
                  I would like to network together and use LAVA for home
                  control... pumps, solar panels, heating, lights, etc.).
                  LAVA's implementation is not restricted to a particular
                  hardware platform, operating system, or processor.

                  However, until LAVA becomes profitable, available
                  resources limit its implementation to the following
                  platforms:

                     * Amiga
                       LAVA will be available for the full range of Amigas,
                       from the A500 through the A4000T. The initial
                       release will function only with V2 and V3 operating
                       systems, but an eventual release of a V1.3 capable
                       version is expected.

                       Hot LAVA for the Amiga will require TCP/IP support
                       (several sources available).

                       Molten LAVA for some Amiga models will operate with
                       limited display quality. This is due to restrictions
                       in color capabilities and processor performance.
                       Support for third party graphics cards is being
                       considered, but is second priority to native
                       operation.

                     * PC
                       Critical to the success of LAVA is that it gain a
                       large user base as rapidly as possible. The only way
                       to do this is to support various PC configurations,
                       including Windows (95, 3.1, and NT) and DOS. So far
                       during development, supporting the PC has only
                       required an extra 5-10% more effort.

                       Hot LAVA will require Winsock for TCP/IP support.

                       Molten LAVA will need graphics and sound cards of
                       sufficient quality to reproduce multimedia content.
                       Although LAVA will run on less capable machines, the
                       Molten version will not accommodate hardware with
                       less than adequate performance. The DOS Molten
                       version will also be restricted to certain types of
                       video and sound cards.

                  In time other platforms will be considered. (Funding of
                  these projects may depend on independent sponsorship.)
                  Some possibilities are:

                     * Phase5 A\Box, Be Box, PIOS, Villagetronic, etc.
                     * Apple Macintosh (68k and PPC)
                     * Unix flavors including Lynx (useful as LAVA servers)
                     * Sun, SGI, Next, and other workstations
                     * Special custom or proprietary systems

                  ----------------------------------------------------------

                  Availability and Contributions

                  LAVA will be available as shareware for personal,
                  non-commercial use.

                  For nearly ten years, LAVA has gone through various
                  stages of refinement. (See A Short History of LAVA coming
                  to this site soon.) The current prototype (alpha-test)
                  has been up and running for several months. There are
                  still a few important modules to complete, but we expect
                  to release the alpha-test version by March 1997. After
                  that, a beta release is scheduled for sometime in May
                  1997 with a final release later in the summer.

                  You will be able to download the official LAVA
                  distribution from our internet site www.sassenrath.com.
                  Other mirror sites are likely to become available over
                  time, and they will be announced on our site.

                  A contribution to the project for any amount is greatly
                  appreciated and will ensure that there is a future for
                  both the LAVA language and the Magma OS. In addition,
                  contributions above and beyond are:

                     * Contributing User - If you would like to support
                       this effort, do not have access to the internet, or
                       just prefer software delivered on floppy disk, you
                       can receive a Carl Sassenrath autographed and
                       numbered copy of LAVA (most current release) for a
                       $50 (US) contribution.

                     * Contributing Developer - For a contribution of $100
                       (US), you will be invited to join the LAVA Flow
                       Developer Program. This puts you on the inside track
                       with a private mailing list, pre-release versions of
                       software, special interface documentation, and
                       communications to Carl Sassenrath via email. In
                       addition, your name will be listed for one year in
                       our LAVA Flow developers internet directory.

                     * Supporting Contributor - A distinguished designation
                       for those who truly believe in what we are doing. In
                       a special section of our internet web site, these
                       supporters will be recognized for a contribution of
                       $250 (US) or more.

                     * Founding Contributors - to whom we are especially
                       grateful will be honored at the top of our web
                       site's home page with a graphics banner (and link)
                       displayed for an entire week, after which their name
                       (and link) will continue to be displayed on our home
                       page for a full year. Minimum contribution is $1000
                       (US).

                  Contributions to the LAVA Language and Magma OS project
                  can be sent to:

                            Carl Sassenrath
                            PO Box 264
                            Calpella, CA 95418 USA

                  Check or money order please. (Eventually credit cards
                  will also be accepted.)

                  We thank you in advance for helping us offer a choice in
                  Personal Computing.

                  You can email comments to: lava@sassenrath.com

                  ----------------------------------------------------------

                  Keep an eye on this web site, www.sassenrath.com, for
                  more information.

                  ----------------------------------------------------------

                  Copyright © Carl Sassenrath 1997

                  LAVA, Hot LAVA, Molten LAVA, Hot Molten LAVA, and Magma
                  used in reference to the LAVA language are trademarks of
                  Carl Sassenrath.

                  Send web comments to: webmaster@sassenrath.com



---------- END OF FORWARDED MESSAGE ----------

