--------- START OF FORWARDED MESSAGE ---------

From System ....: Internet
From Conference : comp.sys.amiga.misc
MessageID ......: <4872.6970T1392T1633@fl.net.au>
Originally from : gregh <gregh@fl.net.au>
Subject ........: Be- The next orphan?

Check this out from the Be conf. I wonder if it is true?


Dear Be Developer,

We've taken the decision to focus purely on software development and to
cease production of the BeBox. We want to explain what led to this
decision and what this implies for you, our developers.

Be's goal is to make the BeOS the premier platform for digital content
design. To that end, the BeOS was designed to take advantage of
high-performance hardware and to take particular advantage of
multiprocessor hardware. Until recently, low-cost MP machines have been
scarce, and they were scarcer still in 1990 when the original BeBox was
conceived. The BeBox, in its various forms and revisions, was designed
to prove the point that you _can_ build an MP personal computer, and
we'd like to think that it succeeded in doing just that.

In 1996, we ported the BeOS to the PowerMac architecture, and began to
see the advantages of running our OS on widely-available, mass-market
hardware. With the advent of MP PowerMacs from Apple, Power Computing,
DayStar, and others yet to come, we've been able to run the BeOS on some
pretty impressive hardware, ranging from very low-cost 603-family
desktops through to hulking testosterone devices like the quad 200MHz
604e DayStar machine.

It's very hard, actually impossible, for a small 50-person company like
Be to keep up with the hardware engineering resources of the entire
PowerMac market. At Macworld in San Francisco last month, it became very
clear that almost all the developer and future user interest was in the
BeOS for PowerMac. Sure, if we could build a quad 604 BeBox and ship it
this quarter for $3,000, or even $5,000, we'd have a winner on our
hands. But, our investigations revealed that products like this take a
lot of time and money to develop, and cost a lot to build, especially in
low volumes.

In addition, a very large part of our, and our developers', target
market of digital content designers uses PowerMacs and applications
running on the MacOS. By offering the BeOS on PowerMacs, we allow them
to run on their existing hardware (with greater performance,
functionality and stability) and to run their existing MacOS apps,
either by dual-booting or by using VirtualMac technology.

Finally, we faced an ethical dilemma: as we license hardware vendors to
bundle the BeOS, we have a potential conflict of interest. How do we
optimize between our hardware sales and making the BeOS available on
other manufacturers' hardware? This conflict of interest faces any
company that sells an OS on its own hardware while licensing it to other
hardware manufacturers. We've chosen to avoid the conflict in the
simplest way possible.

So, what does this mean for current BeBox owners?

We will honor the warranties on all the BeBoxes that we've sold, of
course. We'll make best efforts to keep spares available for as long as
possible after the last warranty has expired. Remember, most of the
content of a BeBox is off-the-shelf PC hardware and should be
maintainable for many years. Releases of the BeOS planned for the next
12 months will support the BeBox and we'll make best efforts to continue
support beyond that.

And what does this mean for all Be developers?

Most of the people using the BeOS today are already using it on
PowerMacs. Given the availability of exciting low-cost UP and MP
PowerMacs from Power Computing, Apple and others, the cost of entry to
developing for the BeOS is lower than ever. However, in the spirit of
lowering this cost even further, we're preparing some special developer
packages that we'll announce shortly.

The BeBox's unique i/o capabilities are becoming less unique as
media-rich i/o becomes more accessible on mass-market machines. We're
already working on video and audio drivers for emerging and existing
PowerMac hardware.

However well-reasoned and reasonable this decision is, we know that all
such transitions can cause pain and inconvenience. As a company and a
team that knows in its bones how important it is to work closely and
well with our developers for our mutual success, we want to ensure that
we do our best to make this transition as smooth as possible for our
BeBox owners. Please let us know if you have any questions or concerns.

Alex Osadzinski, for the Be team.

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Alex Osadzinski, Sales & Marketing, Be Inc.
800 El Camino Real, Suite 300, Menlo Park, CA 94025, USA
voice +1 (415) 462-4126, fax +1 (415) 462-4129
alex@be.com    http://www.be.com     "One brain isn't enough"



 ------------------------------------------------------------------------
|Sysop of Amiga's Sci-Fi BBS   gregh@fl.net.au Chow Chow lover!          |
|Are you old when you enjoy a good headbanger record with others over 40?|
 ------------------------------------------------------------------------


---------- END OF FORWARDED MESSAGE ----------

