--------- START OF FORWARDED MESSAGE ---------

From System ....: Internet
From Conference : comp.sys.amiga.misc
MessageID ......: <2739.6960T732T60@interlog.com>
Originally from : Steve Bowie <lightwrx@interlog.com>
Subject ........: ARise, Sassenrath and more!

Announcing:   The ARise Initiative:

--------------------------------------------------

A group of us, operating as 'the ARise Initiative'
has been active over the last 6 weeks exploring the
views and ideas of "Amiga Legends" Carl Sassenrath,
David Haynie, Dale Luck, RJ MIcal, Dale Larsen and
others, exchanging a great deal of correspondence
with them on a private mailing-list.


We dealt with issues such as whether the Amiga in
its present legal as well as technological condition
was a) worthwhile rescuing and developing,  and
b) Whether the Amiga community could be persuaded to
part with some money to fund or help fund either the
rescue/development or the start of something entirely
new, based on the Amiga 'Spirit' or Gestalt but not
dependant on proprietary technology.


Very diplomatically our "legends" were asked for
possible conflicts of interests in what they were
now pursuing individually, and if they would help in
constituting a "Council of Wisemen." This council would
be a unifying factor, co-ordinating various ongoing
projects, suggesting ways and means to avoid unecessary
competition.  Their 'authority' would flow from their
recognized ability and good sense, rather than from a
corporate boardroom.


A good deal of time was spent considering "compatibility
and conflict" issues - whether some level of backwards
compatability is possible, and where potential pitfalls
due to competing interests might lie.

Finally we were concerned with legal matters -
protection for intellectual property, what kind structure
a "user-based" financing could take, and how to reach as
many users as possible.

Some 500 odd postings later Carl Sassenrath informed us
last Friday of his plan to announce his own remarkable
efforts, and his willingness to invite participation from
the user community.   Other parts of the 'ARise' initiative
remain in developmental stages.


This information is now in place....see www.sassenrath.com.


Today, Jan 21, 1997 marks the beginning of something new -
the analogy of a revolution is not misplaced.  You will
have an opportunity to express your views, and to be a part.

The 'ARise' working group is not here claiming any credit
for the events of the day... rather we hope to continue our
initiative by assisting Mr. Sassenrath in practical ways,
and continuing to pursue our broader goals.

Arrangements are being hurried into place to permit your
support for this concept and the work behind it.  Amigans,
the worst may be over...the best has just begun!


Further information about ARise, and the Mailing list
(tentatively called the "Second_Wind" Mailing List) will be
found on my homepage, at http://www.interlog.com/~lightwrx
as it becomes available.


Regards,
Steve Bowie.


---------- END OF FORWARDED MESSAGE ----------

