--------- START OF FORWARDED MESSAGE ---------

From System ....: Internet
From Conference : comp.sys.amiga.misc
MessageID ......: <335058f0.378906689@news.jersey.net>
Originally from : Dave Haynie <dhaynie@jersey.net>
Subject ........: Re: Amiga Hardware ideas

On Fri, 11 Apr 1997 19:35:44 +0100, Nicholas Blachford
<minator@hearit.demon.co.uk> wrote:

>Dave Haynie once mentioned that were some people who dreampt up weird
>and wonderful ideas for the Amiga and sent them into Commodore in the
>hope they might actually get noticed, some of these actually got to
>engineering.  

Well they did, and I always read them. But these were pretty wacky,
rarely of much value. You do have to realize the nature of this kind
of letter, and C= Engineer, for the full effect, though. First of all,
most of these letters were written by pretty young folks, or those who
came off sounding very naive. At least 30-40% were handwritten, I
don't recall a single one wriitten up as a formal business letter
should be. I think the salient point is that, if such ideas were not
written up in formal proposal format, the savvy users would be
emailing, not writing letters.

The second factor, of course, was they in Engineering, we were
generally using stuff, daily, that you all wouldn't get for another
year or so. So, in order to come up with something really interesting,
you need not just see as far as we in Engineering, you have a year's
handicap. 

But if it was only like that. In most cases, the letters were
something like "you really should add more resolutions. I have saved
you the trouble of figuring out the useful ones, here they are.....
<pages deleted>....  and it just got worse from there.

Now, with that said, it's not impossible that a well written, clear
and to-the-point letter can't be of some use. Gateway must know
something about the Amiga, sure, but not everything, especially when
it comes to understanding users and what they're doing with it. Nutty
letters may spoil them for anything good, but a well considered
letter, not written crayon, couldn't hurt. 

>I also sent them to Quikpak but they were looking rather old by that
>stage so before I sent them I redesigned my ideas around a new custom
>chip with 3.2 GigaByte/second video bandwidth.

Better done than most, but this is still fairly useless to anyone who
would actually be in the position of doing this kind of thing (eg, VP
of Engineering, systems designers, chip designers, etc). To use an
analogy, you have a title for a book, a nice sketch for the cover, and
maybe a paragraph synopsis of the plot. An experienced writer could do
the same in under an hour. 

Not to say there might not be good ideas in there. That's exactly why
I read everything that got sent to me at C=, even though it mostly
just useful for laughs (well, you made it past the "just plain silly"
stage, at least). 

You have a tendency to want to make a machine that's all things to all
people. You might be interested in look at the Panda Project
(http://www.archistrat.com), which had a similar kind of idea, but
well enough designed to actually work. It makes for expensive
computers, and no one's really talking about two or three vastly
different CPUs in one system. That's very expensive -- each CPU has
its own bus conventions, so you wind up either with a compromise on
performance, or too many repeated system pieces. Then there's the fact
that most people ultimately want to run one OS most of the time. So a
second PPC chip is a better buy than a PPC and an Alpha. 

> I have yet to get a
>reply from anyone concerning these ideas

Not a big surprise. Though in fairness to you, you probably could have
sent QuikPak the holy grail (or AT, for that matter, after last
March/April when they stopped engineering), and they wouldn't have had
anyone there who could have recognized it.

>Everyone has dreams, now you can enjoy mine as well...

H.G. Wells didn't know the right way to build a rocket architecture,
but others did eventually get to the moon. Always follow your dreams. 

Dave Haynie      V.P. Hardware Engineering    PIOS Computer
haynie@pios.de     "...no RISC, no fun"

---------- END OF FORWARDED MESSAGE ----------

