--------- START OF FORWARDED MESSAGE ---------

From System ....: Internet
From Conference : comp.sys.amiga.misc
MessageID ......: <334b9fd4.69374445@news.jersey.net>
Originally from : Dave Haynie <dhaynie@jersey.net>
Subject ........: Re: SOLD! Amiga tech sold to Gateway 2000!

On 2 Apr 1997 22:04:33 GMT, kcci1@central.susx.ac.uk (Alan L.M. Buxey)
wrote:

>On Wed, 2 Apr 1997 15:51:21 GMT ,Andrew Stephan posted the following:

>: AAA would take around 2 years to finish, and by then it would be 

>eh? AAA was almost 100% complete 

Nonsense.

> in fact, i think it was actually put into silicon....

You think chips that complex work the first time you make them? Or the
second? Or the third?

Yes, we had first silicon on the AAA chips. They did stuff, but they
were FAR from complete. With the right budget at the time, it might
have been 6 months, might have been 12 months. We wanted a release in
1994, but really didn't expect anything shipping (realize, there's
software involved here too) before early '95. 

If you have to restart the project now, two years would be a good
estimate. You are not going to be able to track down all the designers
working on the AAA project at one time and drop them right in where
they left off. 

And when you were done, you'd have AAA. Big, fat, hairy deal at this
point. Way better than AA, sure. But also very expensive. If you
managed to put the functionality of the six chips you would need for a
high-end implementation (somewhere around 1.5 million transistors,
nothing frightening by '97 standards) into a single chip, the cost
would get manageable. But the performance would still be wanting,
compared to anything else out there, at least for basic stuff. It's
questionable just what value the weird stuff would be at that point
(HAM10, chunky HAM8, 16-bit planar, PACKHY, PACKLUT, blitter add/sub
with saturation, blitter sort/tally, etc). Good ideas, don't get me
wrong. But they're in a design rooted back to what was possible to
forsee in 1988. Lack of a proper budget, unfortunately, wasn't in that
design meeting. Neither was PCI, or even AMI bus (a PCI-like thing I
was designing in 1991).  

>: either.  As much as our custom chips were wonderful, we don't have much 
>: choice but to go with off-the-shelf chipsets or be hopelessly obsolete.  
>
>err, yes we do...read about some of the older designed custom Amiga
>chipsets before you go off saying things liek that.

What does that mean? No Amiga chip is a viable option for the desktop
today. They could have two decent uses, still. AA is actually much
better than the kind of chips being used in real settop boxes these
days (real meaning not a $5,000 SGI silicon orgy, but rather something
like you'll find doing WebTV, or any number of digital television
boxes). The other useful thing would be a combined Amiga/Toaster card
for the PCI bus, but only if it could be cost effectively put on a
single card.

>: fairly quickly...  But would Gateway pour that much into a custom 
>: chipset?  I doubt it.
>
>depends exactly how much it would cost

At the time, we were estimating something on the order of $500,000 to
$1,000,000 to finish AAA. That, of course, given a pre-existing chip
design group. Like I said, it's much more expensive when you have to
assemble such a group. It'll take longer. And you don't have a good
use for the result today, much less in a year or two.

If I wanted to do something Amiga-like today, and had the budget for
it, I would talk to Ed Hepler and 3DO, see what they each have and how
well it suits a desktop computer system. Then compare that to
"standard" stuff and see if it's still a good move. Maybe it would be
-- I couldn't do any custom work at PIOS, we don't have the budget. If
a company with a hundred million came to me and asked about custom
chips, I might find something useful, if I could tap into such a
preexisting design. And, of course, some chip wizard like Dr. Ed. You
wouldn't have had the Amiga without Jay, no matter how much you spent
trying to do cool chips. Look at Atari -- they didn't do anything
innovative until they hooked up with that design house in the UK (the
guys who did the Jaguar for Atari, don't recall the name offhand).

Dave Haynie      V.P. Hardware Engineering    PIOS Computer
haynie@pios.de     "...no RISC, no fun"

---------- END OF FORWARDED MESSAGE ----------

