--------- START OF FORWARDED MESSAGE ---------

From System ....: Internet
From Conference : comp.sys.amiga.misc
MessageID ......: <334b97f2.67356693@news.jersey.net>
Originally from : Dave Haynie <dhaynie@jersey.net>
Subject ........: Re: Warning : Gateway2000 and Amiga

On 1 Apr 1997 18:31:14 -0700, Glenn Saunders <krishna@primenet.com>
wrote:

>The mortal Andreas Kleinert wrote:
>: Glenn Saunders (krishna@primenet.com) wrote:

>: : Nowhere has it been said by GW2K that they are interested in continuing
>: : the Amiga in any viable form.

>:  It has been said in the first statement, that they want "Amiga
>:  International" to continue further development.

>Since "Amiga International" (i.e. Escom/Viscorp) has accomplished almost
>nothing in the R&D department, I don't call this viable. 

I'm not certain that GW2K knows the intimate details of what has or
hasn't been done. I'm sure its fairly obvious that AT/AI in their
current state isn't capable of doing any development.

>:  wrong - ESCOM just went bancrupt before they could, and no one knows
>:  about VIScorp, because they never could

>Excuses excuses.  Why is it Pios One is so far along with far less
>resources, then?  

A good deal of the problem was getting ESCOM to commit to a project,
but that came later. The first problem was that AT didn't hit the
ground running with new development. They got the Amiga assets at the
end of April in '95, but didn't come to Andy and I for technical help
until the end of November. We both got our respective PowerAmiga plans
together and back to AT in about a month. AT wanted to jump on the
project then, hire us full time and staff up, but of course they
needed money from ESCOM. ESCOM waffled on it, I went ahead looking at
some alternatives in case they didn't want such aggressive a hardware
plan, but really didn't get very far in practical work, siimply
because they weren't yet interested. By the end of March, ESCOM was
pulling the plug on everything, not just the PowerAmiga, but AT in
general, at least as far as their being an engineering group was
concerned. 

The PIOS One development was entirely different. We started knowing we
wanted to make a new computer, it just took to sorting out the
details. Over the summer of '96 it was likely to be more in fhe shape
of the super-low-cost AT box, but after we lost any hope for AmigaOS,
we had to shift gears toward a higher end design. I started that in
September. This started out looking much more like the BeBox than it
does now, but evolved to use more current and/or integrated parts.
Then we tripped up again in mid-January, getting the last of the CHRP
stuff in. 

Nearly every engineering project is late. The reason is simple --
engineering is both science and art, and there's no way to absolutely
predict how quickly inspiration will come when it's needed, how many
weird little problems will show up, etc. AT never even got to that
stage, though, because they never really started the Power Amiga
project. They do have some interesting architecture papers on it...

Dave Haynie      V.P. Hardware Engineering    PIOS Computer
haynie@pios.de     "...no RISC, no fun"

---------- END OF FORWARDED MESSAGE ----------

