--------- START OF FORWARDED MESSAGE ---------

From System ....: Internet
From Conference : comp.sys.amiga.misc
MessageID ......: <3364d6e4.37750973@news.jersey.net>
Originally from : Dave Haynie <dhaynie@jersey.net> <609836306>
Subject ........: Re: The new Amiga. Is it really coming soon ?

On Mon, 28 Apr 1997 01:28:59 GMT, colin@leprechaun.com.au (Colin Ward)
wrote:

>>Have you ever used a Picasso or CybergraphicX card on Zorro III? If
>>not, you have not a single basis for your claims beyond "religion". If
>>so, imagine that about 5x-25x faster, to start with.

>  I meant from a programmer's point of view rather than a users. 

A programmer should see the contents of the graphics.library and/or
intuition.library autodocs. Why would anyone invest time in banging
the Amiga chips anymore. Ok, maybe for fun, but it's wasted time for
anything commercial at this point. 

>  No, I havn't seen a CyberGraphX card, but I have a CyberVision64/3D on
>order, which is supposed to arrive at my local Amiga dealer in a couple of
>days.  It'll be a *huge* upgrade, but what about things like draggable
>hardware screens?  Isn't this one of the most usable features of the Amiga?

No, it's one of the least useful. Sure, it's "cool", because PCs don't
do it. And it's a fairly useful crutch for things like palette menus
when you're running on existing Amiga systems, but that vanishes when
you have 24-bit graphics possible on every system. Screens are quite
useful, true. You get those on any Amiga RTG system, the BeOS, etc.
They're just as fast to the user, only not draggable. Realize that
even screen dragging when resolutions are mixed is only possible
because of the Amiga's limitation that pixels only run at 35ns (or
multiples of that). When you have 8ns pixels on one screen, and 125ns
pixels on another, there's a pixel clock PLL involved, with an
inherent resynch time between modes, not something that can happen on
a line-by-line basis. So draggable screens don't even thrive in a
flexible, modern system. 

>I guess that with generic hardware you could still have screens, but just
>not be draggable.  Without this, it would be a major downer.  You're
>probably familiar with the Cygnus Editor, Amiga-N, Compile, Test, Amiga-M
>sequence?  :-)

That doesn't involve dragging screens. And actually, since I've been
running my A3000 with an 1180x900 screen for the past six years, I
don't have separate screens for editor and workplace when I'm
developing code; I get to see everything on the same screen. Separate
screens are good for other things, like maybe I want a 1024x768x8
screen for PageStream at the same time I'm doing all kind of other
stuff on the main screen. Screens are great. Sliding screens are just
eye candy, they're not necessary. Some of the RTG schemes provide them
anyway; certainly possible, as long as you stick to one pixel clock. 

>>Hey, there was a time when hardware banging was a requirement. It made
>>perfect sense on the C64. It was a bad, bad idea on the Amiga of the
>>80's, but clearly, no one had really given much thought to the idea of
>
>  NO.  The Amiga of the 80's did *not* have the power for generic, OS
>friendly games.  Not if you wanted to *really* push it.  

You're entirely confused about Game APIs; I'm not talking about
everything going through graphics.library here, or running with
Intuition, or on Workbench. You can set any kind of requirements for
the HW and SW necessary and still have workable, very low-level
abstractions. So your game API can hand you a bitmap to bang on to
your heat's content, no need for WritePixel(). But the point is, the
means to get the kind of bitmap, at the resolution you want, is
abstracted. 

Basically, when you look at a high-level RTG type solution, you have
abstractions for both data and control functions, maybe some fairly
fancy ones. This takes some overhead you'd rather not spend on a game.
When you define the datatypes available, and abstract just the control
functions, you're going to lose very little performance, and still be
very portable to other hardware. Sure, not arbitrary hardware; if your
program asked for a 640x400x4 planar screen, and it wasn't available,
you would either fail or have to deal with some other kind of display
in your program. But this would work fine on any VGA/SVGA type
graphics card, even though it might actually have to run in 640x480.

Also, as hardware improves, it's fairly easy to addess some of these
"physical" requirements in software. UAE is the ultimate example of
this: it's emulating, very slowly, the register model of the Amiga,
control and data. The control factor here is the real killer; it has
to emulate precise interactions between registers, since there's no
higher level "statement of intent" available. 

With a game API abstracting most of the important control functions,
most Amiga games would be running at full, or better, speed in
emulation today on any modern computer, with plenty of CPU time left
over. Most of them would run on Amiga RTG boards too. Sure, a few
things would break -- some games are going to count on the time
various things take, and break when that changes. This is why AA
systems boot up in an ECS-style bus mode, running 16-bit video fetches
--- simply going faster will break some things. One of the reasons AAA
could never be 100% compatible.  

>Could you imagine
>Swiv, Turrican or Lionheart, system friendly on an A500, and still running
>at 50 fps with all that action?  No way!  

Absolutely. The fact I can, and you can't, means we're each working
were we should be. I found the kind of folks we had at Commodore
thrived on "impossible" problems; and in fact, the only time I ever
tell people something's impossible is to get them fired up to prove me
wrong. 

> I tried using system
>routines for my supposedly system friendly map editor, but not even
>Commodore's *own* source for placing bobs with graphics.library would work
>without crashing the system.  So I ended up having to write directly to the
>screen.

The graphics.library never pretended to be a game API. And like I
said, there's nothing wrong with writing to the screen, it's banging
the chips to get you that screen, rather than calling an appropriate
screen-building function, that's the problem. 

I said the Amiga's approach was very, very wrong. No, they didn't have
a workable alternative back then, or real RTG, etc. That was the
problem; I'm not blaming the game writers, who had no other choice.
I'm stating that, with enough research on the problem, it could have
been done right, in 1985, in 1990, it doesn't matter when -- you put
the new APIs in place, new games run them, and in a year or two
nobody's all that broken hearted that old stuff doesn't run on new
hardware, especially when the new stuff always will. 

>  I wouldn't say that no one is using or understanding the AGA/ECS chipset!
>I mean maybe not in these newsgroups, but then these newsgroups are
>inhabited by a different breed of people.  The hardware hitting people
>aren't here.  If nobody understands or uses it any more why is it that
>every time I check for new stuff on Aminet there are more hardware hitting
>games/demos than I can possibly download?

Because you have kids there, hacking their systems. Maybe a few
adults, too; but the point being, this is coming from AmiNet. Free
stuff doesn't need to worry about working at all, in a commercial
sense, much less next week or next year. That's not to say there isn't
good code out there, but it's not built with commercial concerns. Real
game people are writing for other machines, probably PCs and game
consoles, for the most part. On the PCs, they have a game API from
Microsoft. It's not the best possible, but it does the job, The BeOS
has this notion, too. Even Apple was working on something like it, but
apparently that's fallen victim to their latest cutbacks. 

In the last days, Commodore was working on this stuff, which as it
turns out was still way ahead of others. Things like lowlevel.library,
sfx.library, etc. were headed in the right direction for this,
unfortunately too late in the game to really make the difference. 


Dave Haynie      V.P. Hardware Engineering    PIOS Computer
haynie@pios.de     "...no RISC, no fun"

---------- END OF FORWARDED MESSAGE ----------

