--------- START OF FORWARDED MESSAGE ---------

From System ....: Internet
From Conference : comp.sys.amiga.misc
MessageID ......: <3341da5c.117254342@news.jersey.net>
Originally from : Dave Haynie <dhaynie@jersey.net>
Subject ........: Re: OK, If its Gateway2000, I wonder ...

On 31 Mar 1997 02:19:19 GMT, d9090@indy.net wrote:

>--
>On  30 Mar 1997 21:24:00 GMT,  bsrowe00@sac.uky.edu (ROWE  BOBBY S) wrote ...
> > Gilles Bourdin (gbo@internet.de) wrote:
 
> > : Steve Holland <steve@britair.demon.co.uk> wrote in article
> > : <9703301229.AA00770@britair.demon.co.uk>...
> > : > I wonder if anybody else has had the thought that maybe Gateway2000/Amiga
> > : > International will use the Intel processor line for future Amiga's.

>Yes.

It's possible. Like most PC "makers", Gateway 2000 OEMs many/most/all
of their motherboards, graphics cards, audio cards, etc. from other
folks (Intel, for example), rather than make their own. There's some
question just what kind of hardware expertise they have in-house. I
believe they once did their own machines, I don't think they're young
enough to have been OEMing from the start.

And that's really no stab at Gateway. Commodore came to the same
conclusion after the PC40 series. Here they were, doing custom chips,
supporting a whole C= sized engineering group for PC things, and some
company in Taiwan could deliver a finished board for less than what C=
could do it for. Couple that with the fast that the PC architecture
really doesn't lend itself to much in the way of creative design, and
you're between a rock and a hard place: you can't make a plain old PC
cheaper than you can buy the parts, and yet you can't make a "special"
PC that gets folks excited. Well, except for casing. So Gateway has
their living room PC, Compaq puts on ears, IBM adds a handle,
Toshiba's look pregnant, Sony's come in purple, etc. 

> > : > Will this be good or bad ?

>Mixed, I'd think. 

I think Gateway's probably a good one, if the Amiga assets actually
had to be bought by a PC company. Of all the suitors from within the
Amiga industry, I'm not convinced one of them had the resources to do
anything with the Amiga after purchase. You'd almost certainly see
another ESCOM there.

Gateway had a really good year, they have money in the bank, and sales
of around 5 billion (Apple is doing 7 billion, down from 9, and I
think Compaq's also in the 9 billion terratory -- so they're not
small). The rumors had them negotiating unsuccessfully to build Mac
Clones a few years back, before Apple was granting general licenses.
They have the living room TV. So at least they're thinking a bit
beyond the traditional desktop PClone running Windows. That's a SIGN
they might have plans for the Amiga we would approve of. Maybe. It's
far from a forgone conclusion at this point, though one of the press
announcements did mention "new products" in the Amiga industry. 

>Dave Haynie seems to think Amiga users would
>love what a PC running AMigaOS could be capable of. Especially
>compared to Windows on the same system setup. 

And you would. Now, I'm not saying you can't do better, that's why I'm
messing around with PowerPCs. But go check out the BeOS sometime on a
BeBox. That's a fairly slow PPC system, using standard commodity,
PC-industry parts (PCI isn't any more Intel than PPC or 68K specific,
but the pieces that live on it, for the most part, grow out of the PC
industry). It's fast. Way faster than Windows. A straight port of the
AmigaOS would be faster still. 

Or check out Scala's MM100, or better yet, MM200 on the PC. That's
really fast compared to normal PC "multimedia", but it's much slower
than a fairly straight port of the AmigaOS runing something more like
Scala MM400 would do (in the Scala case, the older program was more
efficient, but less capable and practically unmaintainable, the
current one is very well done, architecturally speaking). 

>But there's so
>much, er, attitude, shall we say, about custom chipsets and being
>"unique" (read: incompatible.)  Gateway could be put off by a
>properly concerted temper tantrum from hardcore Amiga users.

Getting the AmigaOS back in any decent form on any CPU is way more
than we have a right to expect anymore. If it happens, it's a victory
for everyone who loves the Amiga. Anyone bent out of shape having to
use graphics some 25x-100x faster than their A3000's should get a clue
and enter the 90s. Sorry, but that's the way it is. The Amiga's
graphics were great in 1985, the best you could get on an affordable
computer. But that was 12 years ago, and graphics chips are doubling
in performance nearly every year, and have been for some time. 

> > : It doesn't matter. What counts is the OS
> > 
> > I think Amiga gets a lot of its power from the 68k,
> > register parameter passing comes to mind, which would be
> > very difficult on the x86.

Registerized parameters are good when you can get them, but a fairly
recent development within the AmigaOS, You didn't get them until SAS C
was adpoted by the development team, except of course for function
calls themselves. It was an optimization, sure. But when you have a
processor that's 10x faster than your typical 68K, and probably 8-16K
of one cycle L1 cache, there's really no significant difference
between stack and register passing. Of course, on a RISC processor,
this would be used to, just because it is efficient.

>The current Pentium architecture isn't exactly ideal either, I gather.

It's not ideal, no. But you never really have to look at the CPU
architecture, unless you're writing assembly code. That was fairly
nice on the 68K, and you needed to, the chips weren't fast enough. You
really don't want to write code on the x86, it's butt ugly, and the
compilers are very good. You really don't want to write code for a
RISC chip either. It's code is probably prettier here and there than
the 68000 (they're usually very orthogonal, and math ops tend to have
three operands), but there are all kinds of interactions between
registers, instructions, and the deep pipelines. So unless you really
know the achitecture and don't miss anything, the compiler writes
better code. 

>Can anyone comment on whether the new line of Intel CPU's have
>features, vis a vis interrupts, 

Three basic interrupt levels, same as all x86 and most RISC: maskable,
non-maskable, and "system management". The PC architecture uses a
fairly arcane interrupt controller, the Intel 8529, to manage
interrupts in the system (really two of these chained together in any
PC since the AT, and most systems don't really have these actual
chips, but rather a bit of a custom chip that contains these and lots
of other stuff). This means you're often limited to 15 interrupts
system-wide, though not always. For example, interrupts on the PCI bus
are shareable, unlike the ISA bus interrupts (actually, any interrupt
on the 8529 is shareable, but IBM did use them that way, so no
hardware does). 

> registers,

The programmer sees 8 basic registers, though it's somewhat more
complex than that, since it's a pretty ugly architecture. And there
are also 8 floating point registers, I believe, but on an MMX
processor, these overlap with the MMX registers, you can't see both
sets at once. 

Architecturally, most of the really modern x86 chips use a RISC
technique called "register renaming", where registers are actually
taken from a pool of virtual registers and assigned to act as specific
real registers for specific instructions. This causes the code to
behave as if there were more registers, as long as there aren't
dependencies between the virtual registers discovered. Existing chips
have somewhere between 22 and 48 actual registers for these schemes,
as I recall. 

> bi-endian 

Nope. 

>which would be more favorable for an AmigaOS port?

Clearly the PPC would be a better choice. I certainly hope Gateway's
interested in that again, we'll see...


Dave Haynie      V.P. Hardware Engineering    PIOS Computer
haynie@pios.de     "...no RISC, no fun"

---------- END OF FORWARDED MESSAGE ----------

