--------- START OF FORWARDED MESSAGE ---------

From System ....: Internet
From Conference : comp.sys.amiga.misc
MessageID ......: <3347ebb6.3297775@news.znet.net>
Originally from : "GOAT" <goat@got.net>
Subject ........: Re: PC Weeks Story On The Gateway Deal Is Fu

On 6 Apr 1997 05:10:23 GMT, aq722@cleveland.Freenet.Edu (John Gregor)
wrote:

>Sure, companies do a lot of work to gauge interest in products.  But NOT
>THIS WAY!  They do more controlled surveys and polls to determine the
>extent of their market, but *controlled* is the key word here.  Being
>inunndated with opinions you didn't ask for and aren't prepared to deal
>with is not useful.  The deal is not even final yet!  Give them a chance.

Have some faith in Gateway.  I've dealt with them as a customer, and
I've dealt with Commodore as a customer AND a technician (I own a
Commodore 64 with serial number 103, and I know who owns serial nos 2
& 3, I  was a service tech for a Commodore dealer, and the first
machine I ever coded on was an 8032).  Between the two, Gateway
definitely has had their head screwed on straighter as far as dealing
with customers.  Customer Service is their watchword and countersign.
I wouldn't be surprised if it were tatooed on them somewhere.

Don't judge Gateway's understanding of end-users by Commodore's
antagonistic and patronizing antipathy towards users.  Yes, maybe
Amiga users are fanatics.  Gateway users are something of fanatics,
too (it isn't an ordinary company that ships computers in boxes marked
like cows). They LIKE that fanatacism.  It pays off for them.

They are used to feirce loyalty and speed freaks (they try to be
cutting-edge as much as possible, while staying commercially
competitive), so I don't think that a few oddball letters mixed in
with a generally sane and enthusiastic lot are going to faze them in
the least.

You've been debating back and forth how "most companies" do things
like marketting surveys, but Gateway is not "most companies."  (Ever
gotten a cow kiss from "most companies?")  They're offbeat, they're
different, and they're not afraid of fanatics, and that has worked out
very well for them.

I just hope that they can keep their sense of humor as they survey the
wreckage that the last four years has made of the Amiga.

<<< GOAT >>>
goat@got.net

---------- END OF FORWARDED MESSAGE ----------

