--------- START OF FORWARDED MESSAGE ---------

From System ....: Internet
From Conference : comp.sys.amiga.misc
MessageID ......: <5i2hg1$kgn@sol.sun.csd.unb.ca>
Originally from : Justin Case <w4gs@jupiter.sun.csd.unb.ca>
Subject ........: The Straight Dope on AmigaQUAKE.

Once and for all. The definitive "straight dope" on that AmiQuake "port"
everyone's buzzing about. The source code was obtained from someone named
^MAX^, he belongs to a rather nefarious group of individuals who
re-distribute their own versions of otherwise commercially available
software (read between the blurry lines here, folks). With the code he
acquired, he re-wrote it in order to work on the Amiga, a daunting task,
no doubt. In fact, he's implemented some features not in the original, and
that are exclusive to that particular port. ^MAX^ is continuing to develop
this version, and is actually planning to completely re-write it in
assembler. 

Here's a statement from iD software on this subject:

..."we are aware of a port that was recently written for the Amiga. We
don't condone, nor do we condemn this version. It is not our intention, 
at this time, to begin supporting the Amiga, nor in the foreseable
future..."

They later went on to say that Amiga users would be forced to purchase
Quake, and install it on their systems. I guess they figure a small boost
in sales from people trying to play Quake on their Amiga's.

Here's how it works. You _need_ either the original registered PC
version, on CD, or the freely available shareware version. You _need_ to
install either version on a PC partition in your Amiga system. You're
simply replacing the executable with the "port" of AmiQuake. And then you
run it from there. It works quite nicely on my A4000/040/25 18megs fast.
It IS a RAM hog, I think in _needs_ 10 megs. ^MAX^ has big plans (as he
put it), to continue developing this version. He's currently re-writting
it in assembler, which would drastically increase performance. Other
future plans include full CyberGFX support, AGA/ECS support, and lots of
other improvements over the current release.

I hope this helps eliminate some of the recent posts to the NG's. Post
this "FAQ" anywhere you want. Just leave it as you found it...

For more info, contact me directly..:

Justin Case
w4gs@unb.ca

-- 
Be advised that this individual is spamming hordes of people from your          
domain. This sort of action often results in retaliation, of one form or        
another from people who recieve unsolicited message of this nature. In
other words, if I get more shit like this from your users, I'll destroy

---------- END OF FORWARDED MESSAGE ----------

