
                      Miggybyte Issue 4 Editorial
                      ---------------------------

                      By the hard working Editors

Madness sputters...

Merry Xmas and a happy new year to one and all ;)

Another  month  another mag, well first off the GUI has gone back about 9
versions  to  find out why read my column (The Madness Speaks).  So there
are  a  few bugs the main one being the total lack of pics to go with the
reviews.

Sadly  Uni  work  and  other  commitments are keeping me very busy at the
moment so busy in fact that I though this issue would have to be scraped!
But  so  many  of  you  rung  my BBS and asked for the next issue I set a
weekend aside to get this issue done, so I hope you like it.

MiggyByte  has  become  so popular in such a short space of time it still
has me dazed.  Oh well till next month.......


Sigma Says...

Well welcome to MiGGYBYTE issue 4, first of all I would like to wish each
and every reader a VERY merry Christmas and a happy new year.

I  was  talking to people about the magazine and what they thought of it.
It  was  described  as a Informative read by more than one reader, I hope
that this is how the magazine will continue to go and not steer off to be
a  magazine  full  of what people do not want to read anymore.  For us to
keep  this  standard  of  mag  we  still  need  your help in bringing the
computing  news  and views to the readers just as you have been doing for
the previous issues remember without you there will not be a MiGGYBYTE.

This  issue  is  packed  with loads of useful tips and advice including a
directory  opus  hints  'n  tips  bit.  Well there has not been that much
happening in the world of AMiGA this month so not much to say there.

It  seems  that the magazine is getting very popular now, we even seem to
be getting out to the 'scene' community and they feel concerned enough to
be passing a document around about us which they thought could not be got
back to us.  We did however find this and we have included it this months
issue along with our comments on it.

Once  again  I  would  like to say thank you to all the background people
enovolved  in  the  production  and  distribution  of the magazine.  This
especially  goes  out  to  all the MiGGYBYTE sites that have been doing a
great  job  in spreading the word and indeed the magazine.  Without these
VERY  VERY  VERY  kind  sysops the mag would not be as poplar as it is in
such a short time.

I'm  sure  that  you will all join me in thanking Ben Gaunt (Madness) for
the  hard work he has put into the making of the gui for the magazine and
the time he spent editing and formatting the documents for inclusion.

There  are  a  few  others that I would like to thank {almost done} Peter
Kirby for the time he has spent preparing the magazine for the Aminet and
for  hatching  the  magazine to the file echoes.  Also Steve Bird for the
setting up of the FidoNet end.  Cheers to all of you, a fine job you have
done.

If  I  have missed any people out then feel free to bend my ear about it,
well I think that is enough of all that so Defacto yooohoooo your turn.

We are now going to DEFacto Con 1


Defacto's Dictums...

Well  finally,  Amiga  Technologies have finally unveiled the new CPU for
the  Amiga,  and  what  a  good choice it is!.  Now lets hope they have a
equally   impressive   chipset!.    The   best   news   of  all  is  that
A1200/4000/3000  will  be  upgradable  to  PPC via a card from Blizzard!.
Yipee!.  So get saving and buy yourself this card when it comes out!.

END
---
