
                          Alien Breed 3D
                          --------------

                          Team17 and Ocean

                        Review by Tim Storm

Well  I  know most people have played the demo of this game but what does
the  full  version  have to offer?  Let me tell you its got loads of kewl
stuff.   This IS Doom on the Amiga.  The main let down is the screen size
which  is about 1/3 of the normal screen size so its a bit small but once
your in the thick of it it don't really matter.

The  weapons the weapons tell me about the weapons....  
Well  you  have  the  Shotgun,  Plasma  Rifle,  Rocket  Launcher, Grenade
Launcher erm and another one that has slipped me mind :-/ The weapons are
on  screen  unlike  Gloom and fully animated unlike Fears and just brill,
the sound and anim of the shot gun is great.

The  monsters  the  monsters  tell  me  about the monsters.....  
Well  the  monsters  might  come as a surprise to some as so far I've not
found the Alien (you know the one from the 2D Alien Breed games) but have
seen hounds from hell, some sort of Storm Troopers and a very strange and
deadly  Snake  type  man?   Also  there are a few one off monsters like a
At-At from Star Wars and a weird monster that looks like a dirty dust bin
that spews small homing missile/monsters at you?

Tell me about the levels, the levels tell me.....  
Ok  there  are 16 levels and each level gets bigger and bigger and harder
and  harder  as you go along.  One really kewl effect are the levels with
water  in them, this effect has to be seen to be appreciated.  The sounds
in  the  game  are  the  best  in any of the Doom rip offs so far and the
explosions are just gob smaking!

Does  it  support the CD32 control pad on the A1200?  
Yes  it  does  and let me tell you this if you are going to buy this game
for  the A1200 and you don't yet have a CD32 then buy a CD32 type control
pad  as  it  makes the game much easier to controll.  The game makes full
use  of  every  button  on the pad and is a joy to use.  If more software
houses took this approach things would be so much better.

So whats the catch it sounds too good to be true?
Well  the  only  catch  is the size of the screen its a bit small and why
couldn't  Team  17  make  it adjustable?  That said this is the best Doom
style game on the Amiga at the present time and thats no lie.

Team 17 have done it again, another brilliand game.

END
---
