
 Speech by Petro Tyschtschenko at the Software Evening of Computer 95


Ladies  and  Gentlemen,  thank  you very much for attending this software
evening,  it  is  nice  to  see  so  many people interested in developing
software  on the Amiga.  Amiga Technologies began as a production company
in May 1995.

Its  goal  was then to ramp up the production of Amiga computers to bring
them  back  onto  the  market.   We  have  done it.  Then, as soon as the
products  were  available, Amiga Technologies evolved to a computer sales
company to distribute its products world-wide.  We had to meet the demand
that has been waiting for more than one year.  We have done it.

Now,  Amiga  is turning into a true Computer manufacturer, we are finally
building up our Research and Development team in Bensheim.  We are hiring
former  Commodore  engineers as well as new talented people to be able to
respect the announced schedules for the Power Amiga.  Lets do it!

Ladies  and  Gentlemen,  we  want  to  show  our  commitment to the Amiga
platform, not as a quick money maker for the Christmas season, but as one
of  the  most  important  strategic challenges in the ESCOM group.  Amiga
shall  become  the  best  platform  for Multimedia, 3D software, graphics
processing, Internet and many more applications.

The software market is always looking for powerful platforms.  Especially
3D  software  needs great amounts of MIPS.  This is going to be addressed
first  with  the 060 board that we will market in early 96.  Then, in 1st
quarter  97,  the  Power  PC 604 will replace the 060 in the new high-end
model.  Of course, the operating system will have to be ported to the new
RISC-Processor.   This  will  be done internally at Amiga Technologies by
our R&D department.

In  the  meantime,  there  will  also  be new products based on the A1200
concept.  We plan to present the A1200 + in May.  This model will feature
either  the  Coldfire  processor  from  Motorola, or the 68030 at 40 MHz.
SIMM sockets will be integrated directly on the motherboard to allow easy
memory expansion.  The A1200 + is scheduled for the CEBIT in March 96.

Another  product  will be the black box.  This is a set top box that will
feature  an  enhanced  A1200  core,  along with all connectors needed for
communication,  printing, audio in and out and a remote control.  It will
have  a  HI-FI-like  design  that  will  be  created by Frog design.  The
product  will of course be equipped with a CD ROM drive and a floppy disk
drive.

We are also making an Internet package with all software needed to become
an  unbeatable  surfer.  These networking features are planned to be part
of  the  OS  in  a  near future.  It will first be marketed as a complete
package including modem and cables, with the software preinstalled on the
harddrive.  A plug and play solution.

We  also  plan  the Q-Drive to be available shortly after the fair.  This
quad  speed  CD ROM drive plugs into the PCMCIA connector and is provided
with software to enable it to play CD 32 titles.

Ladies and Gentlemen, as you can see, the Amiga family will become larger
very  soon.   To  welcome  these products that will without doubt be very
successful  on  the  market, we want to encourage you to produce software
for them.

We  now  have  a developer support set up and running.  Let me tell you a
few words about its organisation.  There will be a secured section on the
WEB server, only accessible to registered developers.  The address of the
WEB server is www.amiga.de

We will have two types of developers:

Non-commercial  and  commercial  developers.   To become a non-commercial
developer, the candidate has to show an existing program or product, even
public  domain.   The  annual  fee is 100 USD.  For becoming a commercial
developer,  one  has  to  provide  proof  of a commercial product, either
completed or in advanced stage of development.

The  fee  for  becoming a commercial developer is 300 USD a year.  Former
registered  Commodore  developers  will have to register again with Amiga
Technologies.   This  is  necessary  for  us  because  we do not have the
complete   Commodore   developer  database  and  also  because  an  Amiga
Technologies  NDA has to be signed.  All developers will also have access
to the beta versions of the AMIGA OS for testing purposes, they will have
access  to  development  tools,  to  hardware  documentation  and  to our
restricted newsgroups.

Developers  will also have special purchase conditions on Amiga hardware.
There will also be a periodical newsletter.

The  support  for  developers  will  be  accessible from the Internet and
through  a  closed  network  as  in  former Commodore times.  If you have
further  questions  about  software support, you are welcome to ask after
the  session.   We know that there are many people who are convinced that
Amiga  is  the best system and those people believe in the Amiga platform
as well as we do.

This,  Ladies  and  Gentlemen is very encouraging for us.  I believe that
most  of  the people attending here are Amiga enthusiastic and am glad to
see such a strong commitment.

There  is  one  thing  I  would like to tell you:  write software for the
Amiga, Amiga will help you to do this.

We  managed to revive the Amiga hardware.  Now it's to you, together with
us,  to  revive  its  software.   Negotiations  with many software houses
world-wide  have  started.   Our  common goal should be to strengthen the
Amiga software platform for the future.  Please take this message:  Amiga
is   working   tightly  together  with  hardware  companies  to  get  new
extensions, license our technology and create new exciting products.

We  are  motivated by the success we had with our current models and look
forward to bring you new products very soon.

Thank you for your attention.

Copyright 1995 by AMIGA Technologies GmbH - Editor:
Dr. Peter Kittel

END
---
