
                       A NEW YORK ABDUCTION?

                         Sent by Defacto

On  or  about the evening of November 30, 1989, at approximately 3:15 AM,
Linda  (last name withheld) was asleep in her apartment on the 12th floor
of  an apartment building in New York City, together with her husband and
two  young  sons.   She made contact with Budd Hopkins and under hypnosis
reported  being  levitated  off her bed, approached by three grey aliens,
and transported with them through her apartment wall out above the street
and  then  up  into  a  floating  disk.  She reported that she sensed her
nightgown being drawn up to her face.

A  few  weeks  later, Dan (last name withheld) wrote a letter to Hopkins,
stating  that  he  and  his  partner  Richard  (last  name  withheld) had
witnessed  the  event from a car parked on the street about a block away.
He  described  a young woman and three small grey creatures emerging from
the  side  of  the  building  at the 12th floor in a fetal position, arms
wrapped around their legs, head up, with one creature above the woman and
the  other  two  below and to each side.  After emerging from the side of
the building, their bodies extended and they were then lifted up and into
the  floating  disk,  which  was  described  as  having an orange glowing
topside,  with yellow illumination extending down and outward, except for
a  narrow  bluish  beam  extending  straight  downward  up which the four
figures  were  lifted.   Dan  reported that after the figures entered the
craft,  it  then  moved  over  and  down into the river (name withheld by
author)  and  never  reappeared.   Dan  described  himself and Richard as
"undercover  policemen"  who  would not publicly come forward for fear of
damaging  their  careers.  Dan said they were both extremely upset by the
incident,  fearing  for  the  life  or  safety  of  the  young woman, and
distressed  that  they  had  been unable to do anything to help her.  Dan
stated  that  he  and  Richard  would attempt to visit the apartment from
which Linda had been taken to see what became of her.

Having  no  way  to  contact Dan or Richard, Hopkins read their letter to
Linda, advising her that they might visit her, and asking her to ask them
to contact him again if they did.

Dan  and Richard then went to Linda's apartment, and when they identified
themselves, Linda told them Hopkins had told her to expect them.  Dan and
Richard  were  very  relieved  that  Linda  was seemingly okay, and Linda
expressed mixed feelings, saying that it might have been easier to accept
being crazy than having it be confirmed that it really happened.

Dan and Richard did not agree to visit Hopkins, but Linda did get them to
agree  to send Hopkins an audiotape giving a more detailed account of the
events  of  November  30,  and  a  few days later Hopkins did receive the
audiotape,  which  he  played  for the MUFON audience.  Dan reported that
Richard  was  so concerned about Linda that he had taken to observing her
and her apartment during off hours to make sure she was okay.

In  the  meantime,  Linda  developed  discomfort in her right nostril and
visited  her physician, who took an Xray.  A day or two later, before the
Xray  was  developed and returned, Linda woke up with blood over her face
and  bedding  from  her  right  nostril.  The Xray was shown to the MUFON
audience.   It  clearly showed a cylindrical radio-opaque object, perhaps
2-4  mm  in  length, with a helical pointed extension off each end and to
one  side.   Subsequent  examination  showed  no object present and under
hypnosis  it came out that Linda had been visited again by aliens and the
object removed.

In  the meantime, Hopkins tried to identify Dan and Richard.  Then he was
contacted  by  a  woman who reported that she had been driving on a major
New  York bridge (name withheld by author) on the evening of November 30,
1989,  together with a few other cars, when her vehicle stopped, together
with  all electrical activity.  She then noticed an orange glow and saw a
glowing disk floating above and to the side of an apartment building near
the  bridge.  She saw a young woman and three small grey creatures emerge
from the side of the building, from an upper floor about the level of the
bridge,  in  fetal  position, then extend before lifting up into the disk
along  a  blue  beam.   She  also  reported  that people in other stalled
vehicles  also  saw  the  incident.   After the disk left, her car's dome
light  came  on  again  and she was able to restart her car and leave the
area.

When  asked  to remember the event and count off the number of seconds it
took  from  the time the figures emerged from the side of the building to
the  time they unfolded, the witness estimated x seconds (number withheld
by author).

In the meantime, Dan and Richard accosted Linda on the street, asking her
to  come  with them.  When she refused, they took her by force to another
location  and interrogated her.  They seemed particularly concerned about
whether  she  could  tell them whether the aliens had known about the men
witnessing the event.  They also removed her shoes and examined her feet,
seeking  confirmation that she was human, because they thought aliens had
no toes.

Under  hypnosis, Linda was able to give Hopkins the license number of one
of  the  vehicles used in arresting her and part of the license number of
the  other.  From that and other investigation, Hopkins was able to learn
that  they  are not policemen, but US government agents.  The men further
revealed  to  Linda  that at the time of the incident, their car had been
moving  and lost power, and that they had a third party with them, a high
public official who they were escorting, who also witnessed the incident.
They  excused  their  own  abduction  of  her  as  a  matter of "national
security".

Hopkins  reported  that he has been able to obtain a photograph of one of
the  two  men,  knows  their  identities  and their agency, and knows the
identity of the high public official who was with them.

Hopkins  further  reported  on some other visits to Linda and her family.
It  turned  out  that  her  youngest son had been similarly abducted from
their  apartment  several  months before the events of November 30, 1989.
And  during  a later overnight visit by a young family friend, Linda, her
husband,  two sons, and their guest all awoke with severe nosebleeds from
their right nostrils.

One  of  the two men also provided a drawing, which closely resembled one
done by the witness on the bridge, and also resembled one done by the son
of  Linda  who had been abducted.  One of the men also estimated that the
duration  from  emergence  to  unfolding was about x seconds (same number
reported by bridge witness).

Hopkins  then  produced  Linda, who further elaborated on her experiences
and answered questions from the audience.

In  subsequent remarks and remarks to the author in private, Budd Hopkins
said he hoped that more witnesses would come forward, and that the public
official  would come forward, if not in public then at least to privately
contact  him.   He  confirmed  that he is withholding a number of details
that  he  will  use to verify the authenticity of any witness accounts he
may receive.

Linda appears to be in her mid-30s, slender, attractive, about 5'6", with
long  brown hair, an Italian-American Catholic whose boys go to parochial
schools.

Arch-debunker  Phil  Klass  was  very careful to get a good photograph of
Linda.

The  author  asked  Hopkins whether he had taken precautions to make sure
the  facts  come  out  in  case  anything  happens  to  him.   Hopkins is
recovering  from a recent operation, but says he is now feeling fine.  He
assured  the  author  he  has  thought about the problem and that was the
reason  he decided to take the matter public at this time.  He said he is
trying to get a more complete report published in the New York _Post_, so
readers  should  look for it there.  If any mishap should befall Hopkins,
or  any  attempt  be made to silence or discredit him, readers should not
fail to ask penetrating questions about the matter.

This  case is significant because there have heretofore been few cases of
abductions witnessed by persons who were not among the abducted.  Hopkins
expressed  the  opinion  that  the event may, at least in part, have been
staged for the benefit of the public figure who witnessed it.

The  feelings  of  some in the audience may have later been summarized by
Shelley  ...,  one  of  the attendees, who said "God, I hope it's not Dan
Quayle!"

END
---
