
              A USER'S GUIDE TO WHAT YOU SHOULD DO IF YOU'RE
                            ABDUCTED BY A UFO

                              By The Spook 

I  thought  that  this article would be some help to people out there who
have  unfortuently  been  abducted  by  aliens.  Even though this article
mainly concentrates on America there are similar organisations in Britain
and many other countries


LOS ANGELES:  What do you do if you are abducted in your sleep by a group
of  scrawny  gray  aliens with enormous heads, beamed up to a spacecraft,
placed  upon  an  examination  table,  probed  with  enormous needles and
lasers, and then returned to your bed?

If  you  live  in Southern California, you form a support group and share
the experience.  But the thorny questions posed at these sessions are far
more  complex  than  those  discussed  at  your run-of-the-mill self-help
groups.

How do you determine, one man asked at a recent meeting near Los Angeles,
whether  you  have  been  abducted by aliens, abducted by the CIA or were
merely dreaming?  When the aliens implant a tracking device in your body,
how do you get it out?  After you've been abducted, what do you tell your
employer when you show up late for work?

If  you  are  concerned  about  something such as abduction security, you
cannot  simply  approach your neighborhood watch captain for advice.  And
your  family  doctor might be reluctant to explore the "scoop marks" left
by  aliens seeking tissue samples.  So abductees from throughout Southern
California  meet  on  the  last  Sunday  of every month and discuss these
common problems, buck each other up and relate abduction adventures.

During  a  break in the meeting, Kim Carlson rushes over to the coffeepot
for  a  caffeine  jolt  before  she  will  answer  any questions.  She is
exhausted, she confides, because she has been staying up late every night
to  outwit  the aliens who have been abducting her in her sleep.  Carlson
now  will not go to bed until 4:30 a.m.--the time that she has determined
is the alien abduction deadline.

Carlson  delivers the same spiel as any other support-group devotee.  She
used to feel alone, keeping her feelings bottled up inside.  But now that
she  has  met  others like herself, she is open and forthcoming about her
abduction  experiences.  Although this has done wonders for her emotional
health,  it  has  been  tough  on her social life.  Her boyfriend of five
years  recently  dumped her, telling Carlson:  "When you get through this
UFO  business,  give  me  a  call." She shakes her head, raises her palms
skyward and says:  "Like I really have a choice."

Carlson  is a still photographer for the film industry.  Like most of the
others  at  the  meeting,  Carlson relates even the most outlandish tales
with a heartfelt sincerity.

Many  of  her  abductions,  she  says,  follow a similar pattern.  She is
transported by little gray men to their spacecraft and placed on a table,
where  the aliens surround her and study her emotions, her sexuality, her
DNA  makeup  and  her  hand-eye coordination.  She is returned home after
about two hours, she says.

Carlson  has  become  something  of  an abduction activist.  Wherever she
goes,  she  asks  strangers  if  they  have  been  abducted  or  had  UFO
experiences.   Just  last  week, she says earnestly, while shopping at an
electronics  store, she discovered a salesman and a warehouseman who both
had had intimate experiences with UFOs.

Carlson  does  not  know  why  she  and the others at the meeting are the
chosen  people--for  abduction--but  she  has  a hunch why the aliens are
studying  the  human  race.   the  little  gray  men,  she  surmises, are
attempting to create a new, hybrid race.

During  the  session,  abductees  discuss a variety of esoteric subjects.
Snatches of testimony and random comments create a bizarre conversational
mosaic:

"Did your alien have a sense of humor?"

"At  first I thought I was in an elevator, but then I realized I was in a
small craft detaching to a larger craft."

"I  know it wasn't a dream becasue when I returned, my dog was very hyper
and panting and he usually is very calm."

"There is some sort of work going on between the CIA and an alien faction
to develop a propulsion technology."

Although  some  of  these random comments might seem as if they come from
the  lunatic fringe, those who attended the meeting did not seem all that
peculiar.  Many of them had the mien of typical suburbanites who struggle
with  their  mortgages,  attend  PTA  meetings and complain about freeway
traffic.  But ask them about UFOs, aliens or extraterrestrial abductions,
and  they  launch  into  lengthy monologues that some might consider more
appropriately delivered from a psychiatrist's couch.

The support group meets at the home of Yvonne Smith, a hypnotherapist who
sees  many  of  the  abductees as clients.  Through hypnosis, she directs
their  "regression" therapy," where they can re-experience and ultimately
come to terms with the abduction.

She frequently is asked if the abduction experience is "just a California
thing,"  because  residents  seem  more  open  to  the  unorthodox.   But
abductions  and  UFO  experiences,  she  says,  are occuring all over the
United States and the world.

END
---
