
                               W O R M S
                               ---------

                             TEAM 17/Ocean

CD-ROM Version £19.99 (Game)
Also available on 3.5" disks.
Works on ANY Amiga

Tested on A1200 2chip/4fast, CD-ROM
          A1200 2chip/4fast 030/50Mhz, CD-ROM

Worms what are they good for huh?
Well let me tell you NEVER let a worm here you say that or they might use
the dreaded Sheep bomb on you!

Now  every man and his dog (or woman and her cat) has heard of this game.
Some mags say its a cross between Cannon Fodder and Lemmings, well let me
tell  ya  thats a load of bollox.  It might look a tiny bit like Lemmings
but  it doesn't play like Lemmings, it might have guns like Cannon Fodder
but  it  don't  play  like  Cannon Fodder.  The nearest thing to Worms is
Scorched Tanks in the Amiga PD, but Worms is miles better!

OK  on  to the plot, well there isn't one?  Erm on to the game play then.
Chaos has grabbed hold of the peaceful worms and now they have donned the
Rambo  style  kit  and  grabbed the biggest badest weapons they can find.
This  is  where  you come in, taking control of a squad or worms you must
battle  to  the last with other worms in a bloody confrontation that will
go down in history as the end of the worm empire!

Weapons  at  you  disposal are, Bazooka, Homing Missile, Grenade, Cluster
Bomb,  Banana  Bomb?,  Shotgun,  Uzi,  Minigun,  Fire Punch, Dragon Ball,
Dynamite,  Landmines,  Sheep?,  Airstrike,  Kamikazi and the deadly Prod!
Other  equipment  you  have  access  to  are, Teleport, Blowtorch, Drill,
Bungee, Ninja Rope, Girders.

The  various  worlds  you battle on are, Artic, Hades/Hell, Forest, Mars,
Desert, Alien, Tropical Jungle, Junk/Scrapyard.

If  playing  on  an  Amiga  not a PC :) then you can also design your own
worlds to play on!  This is an Amiga only feature!  Kewl eat that and die
you sad PC owners :-)

Well  back  to the game, once you have selected the type of game you wish
to play (friendly, league, knock out) and the number of players (1-4(16))
and  edited your squads names (Makes the game so much fun if you name the
enemy  worms like, John Major, Mrs Thatcher etc, then its so good to blow
em  up!).   The computer then randomly generates a level, estimated to be
around  16 Billion combinations!  Your squad is the placed onto the level
and  you  and  the  enemies take it in turns to lob, fire weapons at each
other.

To   fire  a  weapon  you  first  select  it  eg  Bazooka  then  set  the
elevation/angle at which to fire the weapon, next estimate how much power
is  needed  to  reach  its target.  So hold down the fire button till the
power  bar reaches the required amount of energy and let go.  If all goes
well  you  shell  should fly through the air landing on its target with a
huge  explosion  and a scream from the enemy like 'Your'll regret that!'.
Also  take note of the wind as its very easy for a weapon to be blown off
course  or  even back on top of you or one of your own men with the sound
of 'Stupid!'.

Apart from shooting each other there are tactics that can be played, like
using  the  drill  and blow torch to tunnel underground and lay dynamite,
land mines etc.

The game is total open ended and is great fun for all ages (my kid sister
is constantly beating me) it will keep you entertained for ages and ages.

The  game also makes full use of the CD32 type pads so if you haven't got
one go get one ;)

On  the  CD  is  7 music tracks REAL music that can be played through the
Amiga  while  playing the game or even played through a normal CD player.
But I don't think any of the tracks will reach the top 100 ;)

Also on the CD is a number of raytraced animations/intros.  Each time you
start  the  game  one of the animations is selected at random and played.
Some of the anims are very good and a real laff.  I love the one with the
Uzi an the trees.

Worms  is an all time classic and every Amiga owner should own it.  Worth
every penny.  Well done Team 17.

WARNING:   I  tryed  to  run the CD on a 2meg A1200 with CD-ROM but after
booting  the Game crashes.  Out of memory error!  This might have been my
set up but before buying for an A1200 make sure you can exchange it for a
floppy version if it doesn't work on your system.

M A D N E S S

END
---
