
                          Are You a real Guy?
                          -------------------

Take This Scientific Quiz to Determine Your Guyness Quotient


1.   Alien beings from a highly advanced society visit the Earth, and you
are  the  first  human  they  encounter.   As  a  token  of intergalactic
friendship,  they  present  you with a small but incredibly sophisticated
device  that  is  capable  of  curing  all disease, providing an infinite
supply  of  clean  energy, wiping out hunger and poverty, and permanently
eliminating  oppression  and  violence  all  over  the entire Earth.  You
decide to:

a. Present it to the president of the United States.
b. Present it to the secretary general of the United Nations.
c. Take it apart.


2.   As  you  grow  older, what lost quality of your youthful life do you
miss the most?

a. Innocence.
b. Idealism.
c. Cherry bombs.


3.  When is it okay to kiss another male?

a. When you wish to display simple and pure affection without
   regard for narrow-minded social conventions.
b. When he is the pope. (Not on the lips.)
c. When he is your brother and you are Al Pacino and this is the
   only really sportsmanlike way to let him know that, for business
   reasons, you have to have him killed.


4.  What about hugging another male?

a. If he's your father and at least one of you has a fatal
   disease.
b. If you're performing the Heimlich maneuver. (And even in this
   case, you should repeatedly shout: "I am just dislodging food
   trapped in this male's trachea! I am not in any way aroused!")
c. If you're a professional baseball player and a teammate hits
   a home run to win the World Series, you may hug him provided that
   (1) He is legally within the basepath, (2) Both of you are wear-
   ing protective cups, and (3) You also pound him fraternally with
   your fist hard enough to cause fractures.


5. Complete this sentence: A funeral is a good time to...

a. ...remember the deceased and console his loved ones.
b. ...reflect upon the fleeting transience of earthly life.
c. ...tell the joke about the guy who has Alzheimer's disease and
cancer.


6. In your opinion, the ideal pet is:

a. A cat.
b. A dog.
c. A dog that eats cats.


7.  You have been seeing a woman for several years.  She's attractive and
intelligent,  and  you always enjoy being with her.  One leisurely Sunday
afternoon  the two of you are taking it easy-- you're watching a football
game;  she's reading the papers--when she suddenly, out of the clear blue
sky,  tells  you  that  she  thinks  she really loves you, but she can no
longer  bear  the  uncertainty  of not knowing where your relationship is
going.   She  says she's not asking whether you want to get married; only
whether  you believe that you have some kind of future together.  What do
you say?

a. That you sincerely believe the two of you do have a future,
   but you don't want to rush it.
b. That although you also have strong feelings for her, you
   cannot honestly say that you'll be ready anytime soon to make a
   lasting commitment, and you don't want to hurt her by holding out
   false hope.
c. That you cannot believe the Jets called a draw play on third
   and seventeen.


8.  Okay, so you have decided that you truly love a woman and you want to
spend  the  rest  of your life with her-sharing the joys and the sorrows,
the  triumphs and the tragedies, and all the adventures and opportunities
that the world has to offer, come what may.  How do you tell her?

a. You take her to a nice restaurant and tell her after dinner.
b. You take her for a walk on a moonlit beach, and you say her
   name, and when she turns to you, with the sea breeze blowing her
   hair and the stars in her eyes, you tell her.
c. Tell her what?


9.   One  weekday  morning your wife wakes up feeling ill and asks you to
get your three children ready for school.  Your first question to her is:

a. "Do they need to eat or anything?"
b. "They're in school already?"
c. "There are three of them?"


10. When is it okay to throw away a set of veteran underwear?

a. When it has turned the color of a dead whale and developed new
   holes so large that you're not sure which ones were originally
   intended for your legs.
b. When it is down to eight loosely connected underwear molecules
   and has to be handled with tweezers.
c. It is never okay to throw away veteran underwear. A real guy
   checks the garbage regularly in case somebody--and we are not
   naming names, but this would be his wife--is quietly trying to
   discard his underwear, which she is frankly jealous of, because
   the guy seems to have a more intimate relationship with it than
   with her.


11.   What,  in  your opinion, is the most reasonable explanation for the
fact  that  Moses  led  the Israelites all over the place for forty years
before they finally got to the Promised Land?

a. He was being tested.
b. He wanted them to really appreciate the Promised Land when
   they finally got there.
c. He refused to ask directions.


12.  What is the human race's single greatest achievement?

a. Democracy.
b. Religion.
c. Remote control.


How  to  Score:  Give yourself one point for every time you picked answer
"c."  A  real  guy would score at least 10 on this test.  In fact, a real
guy  would score at least 15, because he would get the special five-point
bonus  for knowing the joke about the guy who has Alzheimer's disease and
cancer.

END
---
