        
                   POWER AMiGA: Will it come too late?

                               By Defacto

So  AMiGA Technolgies have released information about the next generation
of  Amigas  with the PowerPc 604 chip, these are due to ship during early
97, but will it be too late?.

1997  is one year away, one year until the Amiga is truly back to were it
should  be,  at  the  pinacle of computing, but during this next year the
competition is getting stronger:

                o Ultra 64 (Nintendo)
                o 3D0 M2 (Panasonic)
                o Cheaper Pentiums
                o PlayStation/Saturn

These  are  the  platforms  that pose a threat to us, ok the consoles are
really  toys,  but  they have to be considered as users also want to play
games.  But the biggest threat is the PC.

The  PentiumPro has been released (P6), this offers more power to the PC,
and  will  propel it to higher speeds etc.  Because of this Pentiums will
come  down  in price and will be at the 900-1000 pound mark,(actaully you
pick some right now for that price).

So  during the next year what we need is a new mid-range 040 machine with
the following:

                o 4 megs of ram (2meg chip, 2meg fast)
                o 68040 25mhz
                o Double speed CD-ROM
                o With at least one Zorro-III slot.
                o FMV Capable

This  machine  should  retail  for  about 600/800 pounds UK, AmiTech have
plans  for a similar machine but with a 030, they should consider this as
well.

Also tjhe A4000T/060 has to come down is price by at least 800 pounds, or
be bundled witth more ram, CD-ROM and a Amiga M1438S monitor for free.

After  the  HardWare is available we need a 'killer' game like 'doom' was
on  the  PC.   But only available on the Amiga until PPC Amigas come out.
AmiTech  could  also  do  with  'hyping'  the  specs  like  all the other
companies have done with there consoles, all the lamer mags were going on
about  Sony/Sega's  machines  even  when  they  weren't released, release
screenshots  of  the  new  OS  and  HardWare  this should cause interest.
Finally  label  all  the  specs  of  the  current  machines  as  'POWERPC
upgradable'  because  of  the  accelerator  cards due to be released next
september ish.

Anyway  we  look  forward  to  these  new  range  of machines, and praise
AmigaTechnolgies for there hard work bringing back the Amiga.

END
---
