
                 MiGGYBYTE'S Guide to a Healthy Body
                 -----------------------------------

                              By Torus

Read the following document and I Promise you will find some information,
that you never knew, that will make you live longer.

Many  of us don't bother to eat a good diet.  Most people are confused by
the   complicated,   and  often  conflicting  ,dietary  advice  currently
available.   Consequently  many of us do not bother, which is why Britain
has one of the highest death rates from heart disease in the world.  Here
is the slobs guide to healthy eating;

     The first and most important thing to remember is that eating should
be a pleasure - do not eat purely for health, you won't live much longer,
but  it  will feel like an eternity.  A little bit of what you fancy will
never hurt anyone; moderation is the key.

     Cut down on highly calorific and dangerous fats, particularly animal
based,  or  saturated  ones such as butter and dairy products.  Cook with
vegetable   oils   which   are  polyunsaturated  and,  even  better,  use
mono-unsaturated  ones such as olive and rapeseed oil.  Cut down on added
sugar,  and  increase  the  amount  of starchy foods such as pasta, rice,
potatoes,  and  bread.  Aim to derive most of your daily calorific intake
from these foods.

     Fibre  is  essential  for  healthy  bowel  function  and may protect
against  bowel  cancer,  the  third  most  common  cancer  killer in this
country,  as  well as helping to prevent constipation, piles and varicose
veins.  The recommended daily minimum is 18g per day.  A portion of fruit
or  vegetable  contains  around 2g, a baked potato 5g, and a bowl of bran
10g.

     Eat  plenty  of fresh fruit and veg with their skins on if possible.
They   contain  high  levels  of  essential  vitamins  and  minerals,  in
particular  the  anti-oxidants, vitamins C and E and beta-carotene.  They
help  protect  the  delicate  tissues  of the body against the ravages of
chemicals  called  free  radicals  produced  by,  among others, sunlight,
pollution,  and  cigarette  smoke.   Studies  have shown that they have a
protective effect against heart disease, as well as possibly reducing the
chances of getting some forms of cancer.

     The  beauty  of  these guidelines is that they work well together, a
diet in high fibre and starchy carbohydrate tends to be low in fat.  Last
but  not least, the word diet is derived from the greek diata meaning way
of  life.   A healthy diet should be a lifelong approach to eating, not a
short-lived fad to lose a few pounds.



3-Day Eating Plan
-----------------

.....To Help Energise you.

Feel  great by following this plan, but first you must gradually cut down
on your caffeine and alcohol intake for at least three days beforehand.

And  for  the best results, you should continue with these healthy habits
after the three days.


Follow  these  principles  throughout  to  feel  Great !!!  

-  Have  half  a  squeezed lemon in at least half a pint of mineral water
(from  a  glass  bottle  - avoid plastic) every morning upon rising.  The
lemon juice, although acidic, becomes alkaline in the system and helps to
cleanse the kidneys.

-  Drink  at  least  six glasses of mineral water each day between meals.
Water is one of the most important and easiest ways to help yourself feel
so much better ( we are 80% water)

-  Use  organic  foodstuffs  as  much  as  possible.   Peel all fruit and
potatoes if they are not organic.

- Avoid all foodstuffs containing HYDROGENATED fats.

- Eat raw salads at least five minutes before cooked food.  Eat a salad

-  either  green with roots, or with sprouted seeds - before your evening
meal.

-  Vegetables,  lightly steamed or baked, should ideally be consumed in a
ratio of three "above ground" vegetables to one "below ground".

-  For  snacks, have 2oz of pumpkin seeds and 2oz of sunflower seeds each
day.  Unbaked flapjack boosts energy levels.  Fruit or vegetable crudites
are  also  good  snacks.   Try  to  have a small glass of vegetable juice
between meals.

The  three-day  eating  plan has been endorsed by Sally Gunnell, she says
'It's a bloody marvel.'

For best effect....
No Smoking
No Alcohol
No Drugs
No Meat
Early to bed
Fresh Air
Eat a good, balanced diet.

Remember  chemicals  can  leech  from  plastic  containers,  so use glass
throughout.

Toxins build up in your body over many years, both from airborne and food
pollutants.   You  need  to  detoxify yourself first, by eating food that
will  remove  heavy  metals,  such as lead, from your system.  Vegetables
such  as  cabbage,  and  fruits  such  as apples, provided they are grown
without pesticides, will help this process.

You  can  have  your chocolate and pastries, but try not to make it every
day.

Day One.

-breakfast.   fresh seasonal fruit (avoid melons and orange juice at this
time  of  day:  bananas must have blackish skins).  Organic porridge oats
soaked  overnight  in  apple  juice.   (You can add sultanas the previous
evening  or  fresh  in  the  morning.)  One slice of wholemeal toast with
thinly   spread   salt-free   butter   or  unhydrogenated  margarine  and
honey.(Dandelion  coffee  or  rosehip  tea  may  be  taken about 20 to 30
minutes after breakfast)

-lunch  Small salad with grated white and red cabbage, grated carrots and
vinaigrette  dressing  made  with  extra virgin olive oil and apple cider
vinegar.   Vegetable quiche (you could try broccoli) made with wholewheat
flour and free-range eggs.

-Supper Salad to start.  Nutroast or grilled vegi-sausages.  Gravy should
be  made with gravy powder (if you do eat meat, NEVER use the meat juices
for  gravy  as  these  contain  too  much  fat.)Boiled or Baked potatoes.
Cabbage and green beans, steamed.  An apple to finish.


Day Two.

-breakfast  Half or whole grapefruit.  Unbaked muesli soaked the previous
evening  in  apple  juice  with  added sultanas; add sliced apples in the
morning.   Alternatively, unbaked muesli with goats milk (no need to soak
overnight.   COWS  MILK SHOULD BE AVOIDED, if possible, at breakfast time
because  it  is  acid-forming  in  the  system.   Toast as on day one, if
desired.

-lunch  Green  salad with a light dressing.  Pasta (wholewheat, durum, or
spinach)  with  a  tomato-based  sauce (use organic tomatoes to make your
own, or tinned organic tomatoes, or organic puree).  Ripe seasonal fruit.

-supper Salad with grated raw vegetable and low fat dressing.  Grilled or
slow  roasted  Quorn  (tm) (yum, it's so greeat!) Only joking, Grilled or
slow  roasted  chicken  (Animal  Rights you COW, just because you can run
fast  you think you can eat animals, be different if you had to run after
them  and  catch  them  yourself, and then wring their little necks until
they  are  DEAD  DEAD  DEAD  DEAD  DEAD  DEAD  wouldn't  it  miss  smarty
tight-pants.  killer.  Look ok, Grilled or slow roasted chicken (don't do
this  at home, kids) or turkey (gobble) (free range - oh .  that makes it
alright I suppose?) You know yesterday she had roast lamb or lamb chops (
I  lied  about  the vegi sausage , nutroast bit), so that's a sheep and a
turkey  dead  this  week,  and its only day two, I expect tomorrow she'll
butcher a wild elephant ( but it's ok, It was free-range and I put lovely
virgin   olive   oil  all  over  it,  and  then  eat  it  with  my  Quorn
(tm)....turkey (free range) and vegetables .  Apple or other ripe fruit.

Day Three.

-Breakfast  Half  a grapefruit, fresh or grilled(are you sure?) according
to taste.  Lightly poached or boiled egg (free range) or portion of baked
beans on wholewheat toast.

-Lunch  green  mixed  salad  with  an  extra  virgin  olive oil and lemon
dressing.  Risotto with mixed vegetables and /or prawns.

-  Supper.  Salad with grated raw vegetables and low fat dressing.  White
fish,  grilled  (without  breadcrumbs)  or  boiled with vegetables.  Ripe
fruit or dessert without refined sugar.


An  organic  diet  is  not going to produce overnight miracles.  It takes
time for the body to cleanse and readjust.


Ok thats enough for know, stay tuned and maybe soon i'll give you 
more tips for living a better life!

END
---
