
                  Really?, We cant get onto a scene BBS
                  -------------------------------------

                             By Some Lamer


This was a reply to our 'piracy' special a couple of issues a ago.
on various 'scene' BBS's this txt file appeared, here it is in full..



           REPLY TO THE LAME ARTICLE IN THE MIGGYBYTE DISK MAG..


HaHa  did  anyone  read  the disk mag to start with???  Well if ya did ya
would  of seen an article on PIRATE BBS'S in LIVERPOOL.  Well as a trader
from LIVERPOOL and using scene BBs's, I would like the chance to reply to
your  accusation  of  easily getting on to these supposedly BBS's..  Well
first  off  as most scene dudes on merseyside have got to know each other
personally  we  find this hard to believe that one of the sysops of these
kewl BBS's went on holiday and left his BBS open to cosysops ???  I would
very  much  doubt  this as the sysops meet each other regulaly for a chat
and  a  drink  and you can take this from me.  That none of the sysops of
the  wares  BBS's in LIVERPOOL have been away for 2 weeks holiday so that
destroys  your  accusation  there...  Well unless you call a BBS that was
about 18 months ago called RED DWARF the sysops name was LISTER !!!  well
let  me  tell  ya he was running a WARES BBS on a 1200 with a 20 meg hard
drive,  so  if  you call this a major WARES BBS in LIVERPOOL then so much
for  your  kewl  hacker  dude???   I  think someone has been pulling your
little willie, so if I was you I would go back and check your info before
you  make  silly  accusations  about PIRATE BBS's (oh yes this guy did go
away  on holiday for 2 weeks) and guess what I was one of the cosysops on
That  LAME  BBS that he left open so if a 20 meg BBS is a major WARES BBS
in  your eyes then where did you leave your WHITE STICK ??  Up your ASS I
thinks  m8.   So  what  are we to believe that your disk mag is a bit old
just  that  someone  has  changed  the  date  to say released 2 oct 95 ??
Should  be  2  oct 85 We thinks hehehehe well there aint much more we can
say except put up or shut up you shower of LAME COCK SUCKERS!!!

PS....

I  liked  the mag it was interesting and quite good for a read so keep.up
the good work, but please as I said earlier on get your facts.  right and
yes I got a copy of your mag from a PIRATE BBS...  hehehehe.
     
Oh  if anybody would like to add to this piece of shit then feel free the
more the merrier

......................................................................... 


{Defacto}

MiGGYBYTE  on  a  pirate  bbs!, so what!, whats the point its.  FREEWARE!
Your  Sysops  must be lame for charging creds for something that is free,
and can be DLed free of charge from any of our legitimate sites!..


{Sigma}

Well lame article eh?, so how comes everything that we wrote contory to
your beliefs were true. 

As for the 20 meg bbs it may not have been a major warez bbs but it still
IS contributing to the sad world of piracy.

So  after  this  little update do you still feel your systems security is
safe?   Just how do you feel knowing your bbs's could be monitored by any
tom, dick or harry *8-) not so cocky are you.

Thankyou  for  taking the time out of your busy pirating schedule to read
our  magazine  and indeed for taking the mick out of what you believed to
be  false  information  in  this reply, it just goes to prove that we can
keep up with what is up to date information in the scene!

{Madness}

Ok lamer, first off the BBS's (yes there more than one) that was used for
the Piracy artical were not in Liverpool that was a made up location.

Are  you  that thick?  Never mind answering that question every one knows
what  wankers,  lamers like you are.  Starting next year there is to be a
heavy  blitz  on  pirate  BBS's  and heavy fines, all BBS will have to be
registered  by  law  and  any  unregistered  ones  will be closed and all
equipment will be taken away.

BT  are  to do the checking as they have been running tests to locate BBS
via the tones through the exchanges.  Any number that shows as a BBS that
is not registered is then noted and later the address is raded.

So get a life Mr.Lamer

END
---
