
IBM  and MOTOROLA to develop new high-performance manufacturing processes
for next-generation PowerPC microprocessors

PressRelease

FISHKILL, N.Y., October 26, 1995 - IBM and Motorola today announced plans
to collaborate on the development of common semi- conductor manufacturing
processes  to  build  future generations of the most advanced PowerPC(tm)
chips.


Both IBM and Motorola manufacture PowerPC microprocessors designed by the
Somerset  Design  Center,  part of a powerful technology alliance between
Apple,  IBM  and Motorola.  Although the focus of the process development
program will be PowerPC microprocessors, the new high-performance process
technology  will be used to build a variety of semiconductor products for
the  computer, consumer and communications markets.  This is an important
announcement  for current and future PowerPC customers, said Dr.  Michael
J.  Attardo, general manager of IBM's Microelectronics Division.  The two
companies  will  work together to leverage IBM's world-class CMOS process
technology to produce superior manufacturing processes.  This will enable
even  greater synergy between the Somerset design team and manufacturing,
resulting  in  unsurpassed  quality  and  performance  of next generation
PowerPC products.


This  collaboration  with IBM is a natural extension of our joint work on
PowerPC microprocessors at the Somerset Design Center, said Tommy George,
president  of  Motorola's  Semiconductor  Product  Sector.  The resulting
capability will extend Motorola's leadership across many high-performance
market segments and enhance our customers' success.

Subject  to  final  agreement, the two companies will assign a comparable
number of researchers and engineers to the project.  The work is expected
to  be  done  at  IBM's  Advanced Semiconductor Technology Center in East
Fishkill,   New  York,  and  will  be  coordinated  with  researchers  at
Motorola's  Advanced  Products  Research  and  Development  Laboratory in
Austin, TX.

Motorola PowerPC Information Line:
1-800-845-MOTO (U.S.)
1-512-434-1502 (International)
512-244-9222 (Fax)

Copyright 1995 by Motorola,

END
---
