
                        Escom Oh So Helpful....

                           By Sigma Alpha

After  passing  my local Escom's I noticed that they had Amiga's for sale
at long last hurray!  However There seemed to be none setup for people to
use.   On  closer  inspection  I saw them in a heap, in the middle of the
floor.   Above them was a sign with the price, I could not believe what I
was  seeing.  Just how would people who are looking for computers be able
to see and test the Amiga.

I wondered just how helpful the staff would be if I wanted to have a look
so  I  went in and talked to one of the staff.  I asked him if this Amiga
was  any  good,  he  said  that  it seemed to be popular it was the third
delivery  of them this week.  I then asked him if I could have a look, he
then  said  that  he  would and began to unpack one of the boxes from the
floor.   Once  he had it unpacked it he noticed that he could not connect
one of the pc monitors to it.  He said He could not demonstrate it due to
this  little problem.  I then noticed a tv in their office and I told him
about  the modulator connector, he then went into the office an unplugged
his  tv  and  plugged  it  into the Amiga.  For the next 20 odd minutes I
played around with workbench, whilst the staff which consisted of one was
getting  increasingly  annoyed.   I now turned around to the staff member
asking why the computer was not out on display and he said that there was
not enough room to have one on display.  Like we buy that excuse..

I said I was going to think about buying the Amiga and that I may be back
later.   About  2  hours  later I returned and the same gezzer was on the
desk,  he  saw  me and gave a little smile (Thinking I've got a sale with
this  smuck  here).   I  went  up  to  the  desk, noticeing the Amiga had
returned  to floor and asked if I could have ANOTHER look.  Well the look
I  got  from this bloke would have made milk go off.  He went back to the
office and got the tv and re-connected the Amiga.  After 10 minutes I had
really  did  start  to  feel  sorry  for this bloke who must have been so
pissed off after his entire morning had been wasted.  So I thought it was
time  to  put  him out of his misery and said I'm sorry I need a built in
harddrive sorry but this is not quite what I want.  Bye.......

After  moving  out of the shop rapidly in fear of my life, I observed him
kicking  an unfortunate pc tower that was underneath the desk OUCH!  well
just as well it was not an Amiga down there.


END
---
