

                   So you thought DOpus couldn't do that!
                   --------------------------------------

                       Brought To You By Sigma Alpha

                                By Dr DOpus
                                -----------

So  you've  been using DOpus for a while and you've discovered that it is
probably  the  most  useful, brilliant, amazing program available for the
Amiga...but are you getting the most from it?

In  this  doc  some  hints  and  tips  to get the most from DOpus will be
explained  but  remember the beauty of DOpus is it's individuality, so be
sure  to  think  about  what you want DOpus to do and adapt ideas to suit
your  own  needs...there's  not  much  it  can't do when it comes to file
management!

To  explain  all the features and functions in DOpus would be a pointless
task...that's  what  the manual is for, but there's a host of things that
can  be  done  or made to be more efficient that aren't in the manual, so
that's  where  this  doc  comes  in.  One of the most important things to
remember  is  that  DOpus  really  shines  when  used in conjunction with
external utilities so I'll mention the most useful ones...be sure to find
them from the usual sources, PD Libraries, BBS's etc.

The  hints  are  aimed at the average Amiga user who wants to do a little
bit  of  everything  with his machine rather than experts who may wish to
perform more specific tasks.  I'll assume that a hard drive is in use.

Q.  What utilities will enhance Directory Opus?

A.  Here's a list of a few essential utilities that you should have, that
perform  functions  or aid existing functions in DOpus.  In no particular
order...

a) LhA (Stefan Boberg) - File archiving util.
b) KingCON (David Larsson) - Console handler (improves Shell/CLI).
c) PPShow v4 (Nico Francois) - Multi format viewer for pics/anims.
d) DMS (SDS Software) - Disk archiver/cruncher.
e) Virus_Checker (John Veldhuis) - Guess!
f) GoldED (Dietmar Eilert) - Text editor, complex but superb.
g) Edword (Martin Reddy) - Text editor, less powerful than GoldED
   but still very good.
h) View80 (Frederico Giannici) - An alternative text viewer to
   Fullview (the built-in viewer), faster and more flexible when
   reading larger doc files.
i) StatRam 3 (Nicola Salmoria) - A very robust Rad: useful for fast
   archiving/DMS'ing.
j) DLD or XFD (Georg Hormann) - decrunch utils.
k) FMS (Mat Dillon) - Create 'virtual' floppy disks' on your hard
   drive, speeds up all sorts of operations.

NB:   You'll  have  to follow the installation instructions supplied with
the  utilities  and  ensure they work as they should before incorporating
them into use with DOpus.

Q.  When I load a directory into an Opus window it takes ages to display,
is there anything I can do to speed this up?

A.  To speed up access in the DOpus windows, select the Operation menu in
ConfigOpus,  then  select  List  Format.  In the 'selected display items'
window just have 'file name' & 'file size' this will speed up the windows
enormously.   Also make sure your disks/hard drives are optimized using a
utility  such as Re-Org 3.11 (Holger Kruse) you'll be amazed at the speed
improvement.

Q.   When  I  double-click or click and drag on some files things happen,
and on others nothing happens...why is this?

A.   These mouse operated functions are set up in the Filetype section of
ConfigOpus,  this is probably the most powerful feature of Opus yet it is
widely  ignored.   You  can  set  up  loads  of different functions to be
performed with the mouse, for example, you can de-archive from one window
to  another  by  simply  clicking  on  a  file with a .LHA extension then
clicking  on  the  destination  window.  You can read docs, view pics and
anims,  DMS disks, copy files, list the contents of archives etc etc, all
with  your  mouse!   Details of how to set up some Filetypes are given on
this disk so take a look and experiment :)

Q.   When  I  perform a function that has an output window, the workbench
screen  comes  to  the front and the output window disappears just as I'm
reading the contents.  I want to see what has happened and sometimes keep
a record, is this possible?

A.   To  make  the 'DOpus Output' windows more friendly and useful, first
you  should install KingCON (1.3), this is not essential but it does give
Shell/CLI  windows a scroll bar which can be invaluable when dealing with
lists.   Select  System  in  ConfigOpus and then select AmigaDOS.  In the
'Shell'  string  gadget  type....SYS:c/NewCli (ensuring that you have the
NewCli  command in your C directory!) Then in the 'Console' string gadget
type the following line....

KCON:11/11/640/154/Directory Opus Output/CLOSE/SCREEN DOPUS.1

or if you don't have KingCON...

CON:11/11/640/154/Directory Opus Output/CLOSE/SCREEN DOPUS.1

On  a  normal  high res screen this will open the output window where the
DOpus windows are, this is better than flicking to and from the workbench
screen every time an output window is opened.  If you want to suspend the
closure  of the output window after the function has completed so you can
read  what's  happened (and scroll back if you've installed KingCON) then
don't  forget  you can set the 'close delay' of the function to -1 making
the  output  window  wait  for you to press the LMB before it will close.
Should  you  wish  to  keep  a  record of what's happened you can set the
'output to file' flag of the function.

Q.  Is it possible to un-DMS to Ram:  ?

A.   No.   There  are however, ways to speed up DMS functions using Opus.
You can set up a recoverable ram disk ( Rad:  ) and DMS to and from it by
setting  up  a Filetype for DMS.  There is a Rad:  utility called StatRam
(v3)  available which is more flexible and robust than using the standard
method  described  in  the  Amiga  manual.   Also  you could use FMS (see
essential  utils  above), this will set up "virtual floppy disks" on your
hard drive ( FF0:  FF1:  etc ) so you can DMS to and from these also.

To set up a filetype for DMS see the Filetypes directory on this disk for
information.

Q.  Opus takes up a lot of my precious memory, how can I save some?

A.   Go  to  the  System section in ConfigOpus and click on modules, then
ensure  that all modules have no tick beside them, this will prevent them
being  loaded  every  time  you  use Opus but you'll still be able to use
them...they'll  load  when needed.  Another thing you can do is regularly
clear the buffers this will free up a bit of memory.

Q.  When I'm working with Opus I get thirsty, will it make coffee?

A.  No....maybe in the next update!

Q.   I  want  Opus  to load my hard drive contents in the left window and
Ram:  contents in the right at startup, is it possible?

A.  Yes, just go to System/Startup in ConfigOpus and set which devices to
load  at  startup.   Come  on,  read  the  manual again!  :) You can load
devices  into specified windows with any button/menu/filetype function if
you  want...when  setting up the config of the button etc use the Scandir
command like this...

ScanDir Sys:  0 (will load your boot device into the left window)

ScanDir Ram:  1 (will load Ram:  into the right window)

NB:  Don't forget to set the cycle gadget to Command.

For instance you could set up a Reset Opus button as follows...

Command ScanDir Sys:  0 
Command ScanDir Ram:  1 
Command Clearbuffers

Obviously you can rescan whatever devices/dirs you like.

Q.   I  use  Parnet to link my 1200 with my CDTV, can I mount the network
from Opus?

A.  Yes.  Make yourself a bootable disk for the CDTV with the lines...

NetPNet-Server Unit 1
Mount Net:

...somewhere  in  the  startup-sequence then set up a button in Opus with
the following...

AmigaDOS SYS:c/NetPNet-Server Unit 0
AmigaDOS SYS:c/Mount Net:

(assuming your commands are in SYS:c) No flags ticked.

Boot  the  CDTV  with  the  floppy  disk then after the disk activity has
finished you can click on your NET:  button in Opus to start the network.
You can then set up Drive buttons to read the CDTV drives, for example...

Drive Name CD0:
Path       Net:CD0

You  can  do  the same to read Net:DF0 / Net:Ram / Net:Rad etc etc.  When
using  Opus  with Net:CD0 it's better to type the exact dir you need into
the string gadget below the selected window.

ie. Net:CD0/utils/misc/

If  you  use the mouse to click through the directories it will take ages
because  of  the  amount  of information on the CD, and the CD drives are
much slower than hard drives.


END
---
