Press Release by Gilles Bourdin, Amiga Technologies GmbH

PRESS INFORMATION FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE

Amiga goes POWER PC (TM)

Bensheim 07/11/95

During  his  key  note  address  held in Los Angeles at the Video Toaster
Expo,  Petro  Tyschtschenko,  CEO  and  President  of  Amiga Technologies
officially  announced the Power PC to be the processor used in the future
generation of Amiga computers.

The first POWER AMIGA will be available 1st quarter 1997 and will feature
the Power PC 604 RISC CPU.  Further models will be available later in the
entry-level, as well as in the mid-range.

The  Power  Amigas  will  be backwards compatible with current models and
will also feature a new and more powerful chipset.

"Our  pre-emptive multitasking Operating System AmigaOS will be ported to
the  Power  PC  platform  first.   Our  goal  is  to make our OS hardware
independent  to  allow  further  ports  on  other  platforms", said Petro
Tyschtschenko.

He   also  added:   "We  have  a  clear  business  plan:   We  do  things
consequently,  step  by step.  First, we ramped up the production and set
up  an  organisation  to  handle the Amiga market and satisfy the demand.
Now  that  we  have  achieved  this  successfully, we focus on research &
development  to  bring new and better products on the market.  One of the
mistakes  the former Commodore made, was to do too many things at a time,
too  many promises and therefore losing focus on important aspects of its
business.   We  have  learned  from these mistakes and won't repeat them.
Commitments and promises are nice but facts are better."

The  developments  will  also  focus  on  including  more features in the
AmigaOS, especially regarding network abilities and memory management.

The  development  of  the  native RISC AmigaOS will be made internally at
Amiga  Technologies.   An  R&D  department  is  currently being set up in
Bensheim  with  sufficient  engineers  to  meet  the announced schedules.
Former  well  known  Commodore engineers as well as new competencies will
join the team in Bensheim this year.

This  development  project  will  also  be involving a dozen companies in
close partnership with Amiga Technologies GmbH.

More  good  news  for  all Amiga users:  The Power PC technology will not
only  be  available for new Power Amigas.  Thanks to a close co-operation
between   Amiga   Technologies   and   Phase  V,  a  German  turbo  board
manufacturer,  a full range of Power PC boards will also be available for
the A1200, A3000 and A4000 series.

This  will  allow a general migration of the Amiga platform towards Power
PC in a short time, also for current models.

First  Power PC boards for current Amigas will be available before end of
1996.

Amiga  Technologies  will  be  flexible  in  licensing the RISC Operating
System  as  before  so  that  a global solution will be available for all
above  mentioned  Amiga  computers.  This is especially important for the
foreseeable partnerships.

The  68060  board for the Amiga 4000 T will be available during the first
quarter of 1996 and will provide the power needed by applications like 3D
rendering software, compilers and high-end graphics software.

During  1996,  new 68K based entry-level models will be available.  These
Amigas  will be based on the A1200 platform, with faster processors, more
memory expansion capacity and CD ROM expansion.

Amiga  Technologies  is a 100% subsidiary of the ESCOM AG and is based in
Bensheim, Germany.

You are welcome on our WEB page for more information
at http://www.amiga.de">http://www.amiga.de

CONTACT:

Gilles Bourdin
AMIGA Technologies
Berliner Ring 89
D-64625 Bensheim
Germany

Tel +49 6252 709 195
Fax +49 6252 709 520

eMail:  gbo@amiga.de

Amiga is a registered trademark of ESCOM AG
POWER PC is a registered trademark of IBM corporation

Copyright 1995 by AMIGA Technologies GmbH - Editor:
Dr. Peter Kittel

END
---
