From: "ffd" <ffd@hol.fr>
Newsgroups: fr.comp.sys.amiga
Subject: ILLEGAL ANNOUNCE FROM P. FREGON:
Date: Wed, 30 Jul 1997 22:56:08 +0200
Organization: France-Festival-Distribution
Lines: 31
Message-ID: <33DFAA68.2ADA@hol.fr>
References: <5rn2vf$7s1@proxy5.proxy.ozemail.net>
Reply-To: ffd@hol.fr
NNTP-Posting-Host: ppp34.mar.hol.fr
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
X-Mailer: Mozilla 3.0 (Win95; I)
To: Peter Fregon <pctask@shell02.ozemail.com.au>
Path: 195.95.96.2!news.unisource.be!planetinternet.be!newsgate.unisource.nl!IRIS.global-one.nl!rain.fr!news-ge.switch.ch!news-fra1.dfn.de!news.apfel.de!howland.erols.net!newsxfer3.itd.umich.edu!oleane!pressimage!news1.isdnet.net!usenet

Someone called by "Peter Fregon" has said:
>It has come to our attention that France Festival Distribution is still 
>selling PC-Task versions illegally.  France Festival Distribution has
>no authorisation to sell PC-Task versions.  They are no longer the 
>distributor for PC-Task (any version) and DirWork because of piracy.

The direction of F.F.D would like to inform French public that 
such libel messages on Internet are not legal at all and concerning
PCTask distribution F.F.D remain the exclusive French distributor
by a LEGAL WRITED AND SIGNED AGREEMENT between Quasar and FFD.

This Legal Agreement has several explicits rupture' cases. But 
for the moment (30th  July 97) Quasar has never used any of these
legal rupture case against FFD by a legal voice like a simple 
signed registered letter!!!!!!!!!!!! 

At more F.F.D has never pirated PCTask or any other Quasar software
this is an ridiculus accusation only managed by Duchet who would 
like to take this market for France since several years. But Duchet 
has already pirated PCTask3 in 95-96 and THIS is true. NO COMMENTS...

For all these reasons F.F.D continue to sell our actual stock of
PCTask 4.x VF and to prove our good faith we will even put no longer
than this 1st August our PCTask 4.x VF price at only 490 FF TTC for 
the full french version with a full free french technical support.

At more French Amiga press magazines will be informed that they cannot
publish such libel Internet message against us.

To end, we let our legal and signed agreement at the disposal
of any people who would like to see it.
