From: "Myron Sothcott" <sothcott@visi.nospam-net>
Newsgroups: comp.sys.amiga.misc
Subject: A new system of computing
Date: 15 Aug 97 18:37:02 +0500
Organization: VisiNet InterNetNews site
Lines: 85
Message-ID: <3968.7166T1117T113@visi.nospam-net>
References: <33efeb45.0@nntp1.nac.net> <9495.7164T810T1543@mindspring.com> <5svm32$30c$1@coranto.ucs.mun.ca> <4731.7165T1170T1340@mindspring.com>
NNTP-Posting-Host: ppp-11-48.nn.visi.net
X-Newsreader: THOR 2.4 (Amiga;TCP/IP) *UNREGISTERED*
Path: 195.95.96.10!news.unisource.be!News.Amsterdam.UnisourceCS!newsfeed.mad.ibernet.es!news.rediris.es!news-ge.switch.ch!news-zh.switch.ch!news.belnet.be!krypton.inbe.net!INbe.net!stns.news.pipex.net!warm.news.pipex.net!pipex!join.news.pipex.net!pipex!www.nntp.primenet.com!globalcenter0!news.primenet.com!nntp.primenet.com!howland.erols.net!news.maxwell.syr.edu!news.visi.net!not-for-mail

  We have been subjected to the whims of chance, unscrupulous developers,
OS pirates, and inefficiency for far too long!  Now it is time to rise up
in protest and be heard!

Are you tired of systems with hundreds of commands to learn?  Tired of 
constant reference to the FM (as in RTFM), or help buttons, or man pages?

Well, struggle no more!  No more need for hundreds of commands!  No, not
even a need for NINE commands!  Cast of those enormous chains.  Cast off
the virtual chains!  Welcome to the FUN of computing....


Announcing the Virtual All-purpose Command (The VAC)!


The VAC doesn't have hundreds of commands to learn.  The VAC doesn't have
NINE commands to learn.  The VAC is the language for the masses.  The VAC
has only, yes you need hold your breath no longer, only ONE command, and
that one command will do everyting you need to do, everything you WANT to
do on a computer!

Run a program?  Use the VAC.  Play a song, a CD, a game?  Use the VAC.
Surf the Internet?  Use the VAC.  Display pictures, slide shows, animations?
Use the VAC.  Write a letter... a song... a novel?  Use the VAC.  The VAC
does it all.  You can use it to program, compile, and link, and it will
give you hints on how the program should be developed.  Yes, one command
will do it all, everything you can think of doing on your computer.

What is this magic command?  DOIT.  One simple command which is actually
case insensitive - DOIT - doit - Doit - do it - DoIt - DoiT, any way you
want to write it will do it :)  And it is absolutly free... 100% freeware.

Well, you ask me, how does the VAC do this?  I must be honest with you...
There is just a little more involved than the command alone, and it really
is trivial.  There is a minor requirement for a simple hardware interface,
and a few simple drivers.  The hardware interfaces through the parallel,
serial, SCSI, EIDE, keyboard, floppy, mouse, and joystick ports.  It is
a simple wired cloth helmet which picks up the electrical pulses from your
brain (will work for MOST people who frequent this newsgroup) and interfaces
with the VAC when entered from the keyboard (GUI version possible but not
yet required).  The software driver converts the impulses from the helmet
and combines with the VAC to cause the required actions to be performed.

Now isn't that simple?

I'm not a hardware guy, so I leave it to you eager developers out there to
pick up on that end of the project.  It should be a reliable device with a
projected life of about 5 years, but since you are required to provide it
as freeware a two year lifetime will be adequate as long as you have
replacement items in stock.

I am also not a software guy (well, I really am but for the purpose of
this announcement of the VAC let's assume that I am not), so I will have
to leave the (trivial) writing of the drivers to those professionals out
there who have little or nothing better to do with their time (there must
be thousands of you just waiting for a REAL project).  Of course the
drivers are freeware too, but you can copyright them an put you name on
them.

What do I get out of the VAC?  I don't want money (well I DO want money
but don't expect to get any out of this), all I want is credit where
credit is due.  I want fame... I want respect...  I want adulation...
I want every computer user everywhere to kneel with forehead to floor
at the very mention of my name!!!  That is not much to ask for providing
you with the VAC, the Virtual All-purpose Command which frees you from
the tyranny of your present unknowable command set.

Happy VACing

Myron

P.S. Since A comes before I, you know which came first.

<SERIOUS>

Sorry for wasting your time, network bandwidth, and any additional
wasted resources resulting from responses to this message.

All responders: please clip my message from your response since there
is enough OTHER garbage in these newsgroups already.

To anybody whom I may have offended... BRRAAAAAAKKKKK!

</SERIOUS>

