--------- START OF FORWARDED MESSAGE ---------

From System ....: Internet
From Conference : comp.sys.amiga.misc
MessageID ......: <5r0ok0$a8n@flood.xnet.com>
Originally from : Jason Compton <jcompton@typhoon.xnet.com> <617071328>
Subject ........: Re: Lack Of Prozac - an Addition to a Disease (LOP-AD)

Eoghann Irving (eoghann@thenet.co.uk) wrote:
: On Sun, 20 Jul 97 23:37:55 PDT, Jeff_Grimmett@elric.maximumaccess.com wrote:
: 
: > It strikes me as futile, Jason.  Do an experiement: buy or make an average
: > run of the mill meat loaf.  Place it on the table.  Try the same tactics on
: > it as you would on Tim Rue.
: 
: 
: You rather miss the point of making rebuttals though.  We don't really
: expect to change Tim's mind, but most of us would like the rest of the
: Amiga community to know the truth.
: 
: If something is repeated often enough then it tends to sink into
: people's brains and comes out as "I read somewhere that,...."

(Forgive me for responding to two people at once but I didn't get Jeff's
post at my ISP)

Jeff: The point is that I'm sick and tired of hearing Tim make his
indirect attacks on my and Carl Sassenrath's character while at the same
time implying that he has something worthwhile to say.  For the record,
let me just say that after reading the first of many letters Tim sent to
VIScorp while I worked there, I was only opening them and skimming them
(and I stress skimming) because I was being paid to.  Don't get me wrong,
I enjoyed hearing from Amiga users even though I felt pretty bad about it
as time wore on, but Tim's stuff was just way too wordy.  I'm sorry to
report that he's actually gotten worse over the past 12 months.

The bottom line is that I hardly gave his writings a second thought. 
Nobody at the executive level saw his stuff, not the least of reasons
being that I didn't feel fanfold printer paper out of a dot-matrix printer
that was still in one big long strip was quite "professional."  Whatever
correspondence he had with Carl is his business, but I can say with
reasonable certainty that I don't think Carl put much more stock in Tim's
writings than I did.

So however Tim's uncreated creation is ripped off by Carl's uncreated
creation is beyond me.


Eoghann:  Thanks for capsulating my intentions so clearly.  I just want to
make sure that people don't somehow misinterpret a lack of response as
some sort of admission of guilt (since they apply that flawed reasoning to
Gateway and AI, but that's another story...)

--
Jason Compton                                jcompton@xnet.com
Editor-in-Chief, Amiga Report Magazine       Anchor, Amiga Legacy
http://www.cucug.org/ar/                     http://www.xnet.com/~jcompton/
Move forward...                              ...was my friend's only cry

---------- END OF FORWARDED MESSAGE ----------

