--------- START OF FORWARDED MESSAGE ---------

From System ....: Internet
From Conference : comp.sys.amiga.misc
MessageID ......: <5r0rs1$bok@proxy5.proxy.ozemail.net>
Originally from : Colin Ward <colin@leprechaun.com.au> <617074690>
Subject ........: MUI + Buggy programs - A call to arms

  Well, the subject line says it all.  What was once a proud computer has
been brought to it's knees by unusable software.

  Can anyone bother to write bug free software any more?  Does anyone
bother to use Mungwall and Enforcer?

  Recently I have stripped all commodities from my Amiga in an attempt to
make it more stable, but alas to no avail.  I have been a hard core Amiga
freak for 8 years, but the lack of testing and quality of Amiga software is
just about to drive me from the machine (and just after I have spent about
$5000 upgrading it too)!

  Last night my girlfriend asked me if we could get onto the Internet.
"Sure" I said.  So we logged on.  Ten minutes later we had a dead copy of
IBrowse, a dead copy of FFNews, a copy of Yam that I couldn't quit from for
fear of crashing the machine, and an ftp client that had just hung half way
through a transfer.  And it's always like this.  It was downright
embarassing, after all of my hyping on about this wonderful Amiga and how
much it pisses on PC's and Mac's and how it should have been the most
successful computer of all time etc. I go to show it to someone and it
can't even do a simple task like listing a newsgroup or ftping a file
without crashing.

  I have also recently started running Enforcer and Mungwall all of the
time, rather than only when I am coding and the number of hits I get is
scary.  No, it's disgusting.

  WAKE UP PEOPLE - BAD PROGRAMMING, AND ESPECIALLY MUI IS KILLING THE
AMIGA.

  Why is MUI killing the Amiga and making it less stable?  For the same
reason that stuff like Borland's OWL, M$ MFC and Visual Basic make the PC a
crap computer.  Because they all encourage lazy programming.

  Example:  In the old days we had to set up all of our menu structures and
our Windows structures and our screen structures and link them all
together.  It was complex and a pain in the neck and if you didn't do it
perfectly then the whole thing blew up.  As a consequence, you were
extremely careful to ensure that everything was just right.  But these
days, with systems like MUI, you just knock something together in five
minutes and it's all very simple.  It compiles and it works and you release
it.  As a consequence, people don't test enough, so you get these bizarre
crashes that quite often can't be detected by Mungwall or Enforcer.

  Well, I am probably really raving here but I am sick to death of buggy
programs, especially MUI ones.  And I *WAS* a strong MUI advocate until
recently.  I programmed a rather large app in it myself and also registered
MUI.  The problem is that with MUI apps your Amiga is totally unstable and
without it you have bugger all modern apps to run.

  FFNews author:  Crashing when your program is run twice is NOT GOOD
ENOUGH.

  IBrowse authors:  Hanging or resetting the Amiga in the middle of
downloading a plain HTML page is NOT GOOD ENOUGH

  YAM author:  Resetting the Amiga when exiting is NOT GOOD ENOUGH

  I could go on for ages but I won't.  For Christ's sake people put some
more pride into what you do.  We either have to get rid of MUI or develop
some tools that will allow us, as users and programmers, to detect
incorrect usage of it, in a global attempt to raise the standard of
software reliability.  Otherwise we might as well pack up and buy a Pentium
today.  The Amiga won't stand a chance.  It's one thing to have the system
blow up when you run a demo - that's a chance you take.  But to reset,
Guru, hang or freeze when you go to check an E-Mail or resize a window?

  And don't anyone tell me it's just my Amiga, 'cause I've watched *all* of
my Amigas slowly lose their reliability over the last year or so as MUI
apps become popular.

  Sorry people to ditch this rant on you, but as a long term Amiga user and
a proud advocate of what was once one of the most stable platorms around
(even WITHOUT memory protection), I've had enough.  I just had to get this
off my chest, because it's killing me to see this happen to my beloved
machine.

/----------------------------------------------------------------------\
[Hitman/Code HQ - 6502/68000/80386 & soon A4000/PowerPC                ]
[Assembly Lover since 1987!  Proud member of Team AMIGA                ]
[OS coding/Hardware hitting/Demos/Games/Modules - c64, Amiga & PC      ]
[I'm a pogrammar.. I'm a programor... I'm a progemmar... I write code. ]
\----------------------------------------------------------------------/



---------- END OF FORWARDED MESSAGE ----------

