--------- START OF FORWARDED MESSAGE ---------

From System ....: Internet
From Conference : comp.sys.amiga.misc
MessageID ......: <ECpA0v.5LC@cix.compulink.co.uk>
Originally from : Index Information <index@cix.compulink.co.uk> <615407646>
Subject ........: Re: potential sales was(re: what's ai doing?)

In article <5os3gb$soq@flood.xnet.com>, jcompton@typhoon.xnet.com (Jason 
Compton) wrote:

<snip>

> <sigh> I can't believe how difficult it is to communicate to people that
> there are computer motherboards that are just not intended for the
> general populace.

Thanks to Jason for continuing messages of support and explanation.

As Jason says the Access is for corporate applications.  To give you an 
idea of price the spot price for a 1 off cased unit is $633 and a 
motherboard unit is $412. Volumes, especially of 500+, obviously give a 
good saving.  The motherboard is:

  '020
  2Mb CHIP
  2Mb FAST
  256kb FLASH ROM
  1kb EEPROM
  Real-Time Clock
  Sound sampler
  IDE
  RGB & Composite outputs on rear
  Mouse, keyboard & printer ports on rear
  Headphone, volume, microphone and reset on font
  Floppy drive
  Mounting brackets, front & rear cover
  Most of the usual A1200 stuff

The cased unit has a Switched Mode PSU (therefore it can operate from any 
power supply worldwide), pass through connector for monitor and a CD-ROM 
currently an 8x.  Of course there are options for faster CD-ROM (booting 
from a Max16 is nice :-), HD, Zip and LS120 drives as required.
 
As its only a chip change at manufacture it only costs a few more dollars 
to have 8Mb FAST.  Also for reasonable quantities (about 100 off) we can 
build to specification and remove unwanted components at manufacture and 
therefore reduce the cost.  We also will add features on request, for 
example we have MPEG1 in design at the moment which will be integrated 
into the motherboard so that it can be fitted or removed as required.  The 
unit has an 8 bit ISA slot, which is currently being tested and the "riser 
card" built, which will allow us to ship units with modems or NE1000 
Ethernet cards at low cost.

I say "spot price" because we quote on a moving price based on component 
costs, therefore the price can change almost daily and we therefore quote 
individually.

Our target for the next 12 months is 10,000 units, rising rapidly in the 
following years as bigger projects come on stream, many of these projects 
take 6-24 months from start to implementation.  We have sufficient volume 
enquires to make me satisfied that we will achieve these figures and 
probably double it.

We have engineering projects scheduled to reduce the build cost and 
increase performance which should give us a 1 off price saving for 
motherboards of $100 in 18 months time, while increasing performance about 
3-5 fold.

We plan to update the web pages for the product once we have some 
more photo's back.  Its about time we did a press release on the license 
agreement too! Its a bit busy around here.

Why the secrecy on Connect & InsideOut?

On Connect there are few secrets, its just that its in design and the 
final ship date is not certain because of prototyping time, etc. We 
decided to say that it was in development, but not say too much until it 
was in pre-production and ready to ship to dealers in sample quantities.  
The unit is for retail sale, although as its pretty much a lower cost 
A4000 type machine it will serve many pro & semi-pro applications.  We 
will not be selling it direct, because its not what we are set up to do, 
we will sell it through main dealers who customise the basic unit to their 
preferred specification - the idea is to start a PC style OEM computer 
assembly market, helping to push the marketing effort out to local markets 
worldwide.  We don't mind if its called the Joe Bloggs Amiga as long as 
it builds the market for the Amiga and our motherboards! As the 
motherboard will accept a processor from 25MHz '040 to a 50MHz '060 and 
128Mb of SIMM's it will be easy to buy a low cost version and upgrade it 
cheaply.  Dealers can also supply it as a desktop, mini-tower or tower for 
flexibility.

InsideOut. We don't want 100's of enquiries about the InsideOut and we 
don't want to try and hold people back from spending money and killing the 
market - until any product ships its not available, we want people to buy 
what is available otherwise there will be no Amiga market left to sell to. 
InsideOut has some great features and we don't want the competition to 
start 'borrowing' ideas or to change their plans in any way.  We also 
don't want to take anything away from the impact of launch.  We initially 
did not intend saying anything, but were persuaded to say something just 
so that it was known about, however we are just keeping information to 
the bare minimum on our web page.  You'll have to wait and see!

Regards,
Mick Tinker
Index Information Ltd, England
index@cix.co.uk
http://www.cix.co.uk/~index
Fax: +44-1256-701023

---------- END OF FORWARDED MESSAGE ----------

