--------- START OF FORWARDED MESSAGE ---------

From System ....: Internet
From Conference : comp.sys.amiga.misc
MessageID ......: <10584.7126T1150T309@mindspring.com>
Originally from : Timothy Rue <timrue@mindspring.com> <615744606>
Subject ........: Proper Priority and Understanding

Proper Priority and Understanding
---------------------------------
© copyright 1997 by Timothy Rue

7/5/97


It has been communicated that Amiga International lacks vision. Perhaps
the main source communicating this is the ICOA. But this is not true at
all. Amiga International has a broad open and non-exclusive licensing of
Amiga technology. This one decision and act of Amiga International has
far more vision in it than all of the former owners of Amiga technologies.
Amiga International, in making this decision has found the one exception
to an article I wrote 12-16-96 "Amiga - Vision of Visions" and available
at - http://www.mindspring.com/~timrue/AVV.html (interestingly enough the
ICOA could easily have been the organization to handle the Amiga had the
technology gone into the public domain - as mentioned in the article)

To understand the vision of visions value of Amiga Internationals decision
and act, is to understand it is a simple act that removes the constraints
for the visions so many have for the Amiga. That such a simple act allows
competition that in-turn brings the better ideas and products forward,
where the competition is judged by consumer purchases.

It is not my intent to undermine the efforts of anyone or group, but to
bring out the proper perspective of so that others can optimize their
focus towards the things which will prove productive and profitable. With
this in mind there is a priority list.

The priority list:

1) Hardware development:

    Without hardware there is not a base or foundation for software or
anything beyond this. With the broad open and non-exclusive of Amiga
International, this is already starting to cause the evolution of better
products and without waiting for the technology to improve. Modular based
enclosures are beginning to come to market. This alone will improve as
more and more versatility is incorporated into the modular component
enclosures.

    As many know, I've communicated much in the way of both benefits and
design of such enclosures (See my web page and past newsgroup posting).
Recently I posted a question regardings the need to establish a common
electronic connector for such modularity. Here again, there are many
benefits to gain in doing this and it will come about. This connector is
not Amiga specific but general simply because there is no reason to create
constraints, removing constraints is what works, what opens the door for
many visions to come into reality. With Gateway 2000, a pc based company,
being the parent company of Amiga International, there is additional
reasons for such a connector to be non-platform specific. There is no
reason to keep the Amiga from tapping into the power of pc based
technology or vice versa. And supporting Gateway 2000 in this is a
certainly a productive thing to do.

    The reason why these things I've been communicating are coming into
existance is simply this: Competition. Of which the broad open and
non-exclusive licensing of Amiga Internationl has made possible.
Competition that knows making things easier and more productive for the
end user will lead to leading in competition.

    With hardware there are many fields where specific hardware additions
have a market, but the base hardware is the same. Applying hardware
component modularity and common connectivity at the base technology level
and building specific hardware that easily connects to the base, the
specific hardware inherently has a bigger market dollar available to it.
Competition at the base will lead to customer savings at the base which
will increase the customer dollar available for specific hardware. This
in-turn will lead to better specific hardware as competition sets in for
the specific hardware dollar. In all of this, the consumer is assured
increasing value for their dollar.


2) Software development and use:

    Hardware is nothing without software to run on it. For many reasons,
of which many of us know, the Amiga lacks in software development tools
that are up to currently available productive standards on other platforms.
The Amiga has far more in the way of development tools available from the
freeware and shareware community than the commericial community. It is
important to correctly understand what is being stated here. Additionally,
there is a large and growing base of freeware and shareware for the Amiga
to also consider in this statement.

    The statement is this: There has always been plenty of interest in
developing Amiga software by the Amiga community, a creative community.
But what is lacking is ease in using Amiga based software development tools
and resources.

    By removing the current constraints of development via easier to use
tools and resources, not only will the speed increase of software
development and delivery happen but the quality and power of software will
too.

    Just as the application of open licensing and component hardware
contribute to better hardware products and prices, so will improving use
ease of software development tools and resources contribute to better
applications. Also by applying the component concept to software, a
developer may take advantage of the software work of others without
infringment on such works. But in any event it starts with improving the
ease of usage of software development tools and resources.

    Given the spectrum of software from freeware, available to all, to
commericial-ware with it's problems of piracy and other inherent
constraints in usage flexability, there are basicly two direction for
improving software development tools and resources to evolve from.

    From the commericial end it is inherent to expect limitations in ease
of use, simply because the commericial end is geared towards property
rights which lead to "complete" development packages and resources whos
creation is limited to financial investment and calculated return.

    From the freeware end we can inherently expect an endless accumulation
of development components and resources.

    Contrary to what many might think, there need not be a trade-off of
power and versatility for ease of use. Commericial development packages
are much more likely to show this trade off due inherent limitations.
But from the freeware side of this, it is more likely that such components
will evolve to better integrate and automate software development using
existing, as well as new, development tools and resources. Of course
freeware is also more likely to allow for the use of commericial
development packages than vise versa.

    The point to recognize here is that there is far more available in the
way of talent, tools and resources from the freeware side of the spectrum
than the commericial side. To improve the usage ease of development tools
will inherently increase the amount of good application as users with good
ideas are able to more easily bring their visions into reality.

    But the problem with bringing about usage ease of development tools is
in knowing how. And the how is in simple, easy to use and versatile
tool(s) that allow integration.

    As open licensing opens the door for others to produce, so should such
a tool(s) open the door for many to work together by simple independant
contributions. This way the available talent base may not only grow but
build the resources needed to bring about improved software development
tools ease of use, and to a level of evolving automated software
development.

    Being that this posting is coming from me, for those who know what my
communication efforts have been, you'll know I'm talking about the Virtual
Interaction Configuration here. But don't let this stop you if you have a
better idea as to what the needed tool is. I've said this before, the
VIC is not an invention but rather an identification, a discovery of
fundamental functionality required in doing anything, with or without
computers. But communicated in terms of an application program with a
great deal taken into consideration. There are reasons for things to be
the way they are described. There are even reasons way the VIC hasn't been
completely documented on my web site. Mostly a matter of priority issues.

    Again, if you have a better idea as to how to improve the ease of
software development tools, go for it. But remember, it's got to really
open the door, not only with improving ease of use of current tools but
allow for the inclusion of yet to be developed tools.


3) A Supprise:

    As a matter of proper priority, the above two priorities need be
addressed before this third can be put into action. And just as the above
two cut thru a great deal to find a simple valid solution, so does this
third. The exception found, as in the above, to cause the door to open all
the way, off the hinges in benefits and profit for anyone who wants to be
a part of it.

    The first of the priorities is already showing productive results in
new hardware product value for the consumer. The second will address
software development needs, bringing new software value to and by the
users. The third, well it's a supprise. One which will be keep quite
until the second priority is well under way. Maybe the second won't
happen? Then the third can't.

-----------------------------

    If I were offered a job by A.I./Gateway 2000 to impliment the big
picture I see, a picture with absolute certainty behind it, would I accept
the job? Tough question, but before I could answer it I'd have to ask the
Amiga community if they are willing to accept me and what I see, even if
they don't see completely see the big picture.

    Let's say I could assure the community that many would have far
greater opportunity then I would inherently be allowed. That I could
assure the community the big picture I see requires increasing value
for the end user, the consumer dollar paid. That the big picture will
inherently pull the user community, developers and other Amiga supporters
(i.e. media) together into a powerhouse team of moving the Amiga forward
in both sales and development.

    With this in mind, would the Amiga community accept me? Regardless of
my "unique" communication style?

TVR

--------------------------------------------------------------------------
   Timothy Rue                             Email: timrue@mindspring.com

                Virtual Interaction Configuration Web Page:

                    http://www.mindspring.com/~timrue/

   A Contribution to the Paradigm Shift of software development and use.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------


---------- END OF FORWARDED MESSAGE ----------

