--------- START OF FORWARDED MESSAGE ---------

From System ....: Internet
From Conference : comp.sys.amiga.misc
MessageID ......: <5p8m9k$408@nntp02.primenet.com>
Originally from : Arctangent <bjp@primenet.com> <615233940>
Subject ........: Amiga Inc's Homepage Controversy..

Time for me to stick up for my friend Gus, for being slaughtered on here..

As hard as it may be to swallow for you folks, you need to understand that
there are an entire slew of professional-level HTML authoring/web page
creation tools available for the Mac and PC which simply aren't available
for the Amiga.

Now, before you go and tune me out, ask yourself this: If it was you, who
was given the responsibility to create a really nice looking piece of work
for a company, wouldn't you take it upon yourself to search out the best
possible tools to use to make your client happy?

Why would you do anything less?

I dont think anyone's saying that HTML/Web Authoring tools for the Amiga
"suck", but its certainly true that similar tools on the PC and Mac offer
far more in the line of options, ease of use, etc. Microsoft FrontPage is
simply one of them. Its a very nice package, reliable, and delivers
excellent results. It requires absolutely no prior knowledge of HTML (as a
language) to create really knockout webpages.

In any job, your selection of tools is what matters; If you build a house
using only hammers, saws, and other tools from one single manufacturer,
your house isn't going to look nearly as good as if you used the BEST tool
for the job, regardless of its manufacturer. Black and Decker for saws,
Wagner for paintguns, Craftsman for hammers, etc.. Because none of the
companies offers the best tools for the job, all the way around.

Amiga Inc's web page was made with Microsoft FrontPage very likely for
only one reason; Its the best tool for the job. Authoring, editing and
maintaining the pages for an entire company is not an easy task; so tool
selection is of utmost concern, not silly loyalties to software specific
to only one platform.

Yeah, you can complain that since it's a computer company, it should
showcase the viability of their own product by having a 100% Amiga -
generated web presence. The reality of it is fairly simple: The difficulty
of doing so is fairly high on platforms like the Mac and PC, let alone a
platform like the Amiga with only a fraction of the options and
professional-level product support available to it.

What matters most, above all else, is that the web page is attractive.
Thats the whole purpose of having it in the first place. To attract
new people inside, and provide a home base for current customers. How that
attractiveness is actually made is of little to no concern to most people.

Gustaf did nothing wrong. He's not a "traitor" for using a non-Amiga based
web authoring tool to create Amiga Inc's web page, for christ's sake.
Through Gustaf's work, we now all have a web page we can be proud of, a
page leaps and bounds above the lifeless and boring web presence given to the
Amiga in previous venues, at Escom and elsewhere.

99.9% of web authors (myself included) would stand behind Gus' decision to
use FrontPage '97, and other tools non-specific to the Amiga. But instead,
he's being ridiculed for trying to do a good job. Think about it.


Arctangent

Author of ArcsWeb, and ArcsPack Volumes 1-17             bjp@primenet.com
Casually being ripped off by Epic Marketing, UK who is selling my artwork
without my permission, concent, approval or compensation. 


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

---------- END OF FORWARDED MESSAGE ----------

