--------- START OF FORWARDED MESSAGE ---------

From System ....: Internet
From Conference : comp.sys.amiga.misc
MessageID ......: <33CCA446.22@netreach.net>
Originally from : fleecy <fleecy@netreach.net> <616595814>
Subject ........: ICOA - no more rumours please

To George, Tim and anyone else out there who is interested 8-)

I hope that this reply can help to ease your worries. I am sure it will
probably raise many more questions and I hope I can answer them as well.

The ICOA initiative is the Industry Council for the Open Amiga.

It is the Industry Council because it is designed to operate at the 
industry level, primarily developers working together and with
the GW/AI technology teams to ensure that everyone is heading more 
or less in the same direction and to allow for a consensus of 
direction.

This will be done by working groups within the ICOA (a working group
will tackle a particular topic and can be suggested and peopled by 
anyone within the IC). Results of the working groups, if accepted 
by the whole IC, will then be posted as RECOMMENDATION to the Amiga 
community. The Steering Committee of the ICOA is to have (hopefully) 
developers, a user rep and an owner rep because it is a more strategic 
body, guiding the and shaping the course of the ICOA.

It is the Open Amiga because Open is a recognised term to describe a
type of architecture. An Open Amiga can have no proprietary hooks into
hardware (because then it isn't open). An Open Amiga must encapsulate
its inner workings and hide them away, revealing only public interfaces 
with which it communicates with the outside world. That is what makes it
open.

Of course, as you point out, this is at a software level. It is 
possible to have an open hardware architecture as well (CHRP, PCI, 
ISA for instance).
 
That is something we have not really talked about since a proper Open
Amiga is a combination of HW (which can be proprietary - the HAL 
takes care of this) and SW (the Open Amiga operating SYStem - OASYS).

To call it the Open AmigaOS not only gives us a more crappy acronym 
but implies that only the OS itself is open (i.e. it allows for open 
communication with other OSs and data standards) but that it will not 
run on other boxes. Open Amiga will work on any HW combination from 
cell phones to existing 68K Amigas to new 68K amigas to Pios machines 
to Phase 5 machines to Intel boxes to Unix boxes to anything. All that 
has to be done is for the necessary HAL to be written.

For machines that follow an open HW architecture i.e CHRP this will be
relatively straightforward. For machines that don't (i.e. the existing
Amigas, the A\Box) then the HAL will be more complicated but the
advantageof this is that the logical library calls that work on any 
OASYS running box can be converted down to run on the special HW of the 
A\Box and it might turn out that the A\Box runs OASYS faster than any 
other machine.

The only disadvantage of OASYS is that it won't be able to 
specifically bang the metal itself but then that's what Phase 5's own OS 
is for. For such an open implementation it is all in the HAL. 

The whole idea of Open Amiga is to enable SW developers to develop 
applications quickly and allow them to create just one copy of their
product knowing that it will run on any machine that can host OASYS.
It is also to allow any HW company that wants to the freedom to produce 
whatever machine they want to (standard, clone or any design imaginable)
safe in the knowledge that all they have to do is create a HAL and then
they will have access to the OASYS market and application base.

As far as being elitist, the ICOA initiative has been as open as
is physically possible. EVERYTHING is on the website. ANYONE on the
planet has been able to register and request to be allowed onto the
mailing list. The rules for the mailing list have been that any 
developer who has a product on the market was admitted, a few support 
staff (for reporting and other such stuff) and mature users who
corresponded 
with the ICOA liaison group about the Daily Digest and demonstrated that 
they could make an important contribution to the list.

The mailing list IS NOT the ICOA. It is a list of people expressing
their personal views about a variety of issues. If someone doesn't 
like Petro, they can say so. If someone want's to have his babies, 
they can say so.

The point of the list was to generate constructive discussion. As 
Eoghann said, the list was about momentum so if disagreement started, 
we agreed to differ and move on. The point of the list was not about 
what it could not do but rather about what it could do.

Phase 5 : Why don't you ask Phase 5? 2 Mass mailings of an outreach
letter were sent out to every developer we could contact (including
Phase 
5) a few days before and the day after the GW WoA announcement informing 
them of the ICOA Phase 2 initiative and inviting them to join. Our
representatives at the WoA talked to Wolf personally and obtained a 
transcript of the  discussion. I cannot remember it exactly (perhaps
Thom 
or Ben or Sam could post it) but the drift of it was that he had been 
following the ICOA with keen interest. When they did not register we
sent 
them a formal fax inviting them.  There is a person on the list who is 
connected to Phase 5 but he made it clear from the start that he was
there 
as a private individual and we have both enjoyed his participation and 
respected his statement of position.

Petro : Our dealings have been exclusively with GW2K, most notable Steve
Johns and Keith Braddock. A rep of ours met Petro at Atlanta and talked 
to himabout the ICOA. Petro said he was interested in getting on the
mailing
list and offered to put a link on the AI site to the ICOA phase 2 site.

"Control the Amiga" ???? This is funnier than watching Animal house
after a crate of beer 8-) To use one of my esteemed colleagues
analogies,
controlling the Amiga would be like trying to nail water to the wall.
The 
ICOA is a collection of developers who have come together out of the 
realisation that after four years of hell, they need to help each other 
and the platform. At the moment the TSC is awaiting details from GW as
to 
how the ICOA can be of use to them in furthering the Amiga platform.
When 
they tell us then the ICOA will be created in that vein. We know who
owns 
the Amiga. We know who controls it. We are trying to get a GW/AI rep on
the 
steering committee of the ICOA with a full veto - does that sound like 
control to you?

JMS suitability - That is a moot point. The JMS exists as a macro
organisation. It seeks to bring together users and usergroups in a
single, 
focused application of concerns, suggestions and issues. It might not be
that 
yet but that is where it is heading. The ICOA recognises the importance
and 
value of the user in the community and wants a JMS (user) rep at the
highest 
level to ensure that the path the ICOA follows is grounded in the
reality of 
the market itself. The JMS, apart from sponsoring the ICOA project has
nothing to do with the ICOA. Now that the ICOA phase 2 initiative is
over, 
the JMS has absolutely nothing to do with the ICOA. When it is created
as a 
legal entity, the JMS will be invited to submit a representative.

To clear something up, I am NOT the JMS rep on the TSC. There is NO JMS
rep on the TSC. The TSC was elected by the ICOA phase 2 mailing list
from
nominations made by the list (which included ppl not on the list). The
job of the TSC is to create the ICOA.

I am a member of the JMS.
I am a member of the steering committee of the JMS.
I was the webmaster of the JMS but resigned when I was elected to the
TSC as I could not do the job justice.
I am a taoist (if you can say that 8-) - Taoist joke there).
I support Everton Football Club.
I enjoy good beer, wine and good food.
I am a great fan of the Amiga.
It has taken me three years to get to level 14 of Cannon Fodder.

If you want any more information then just ask 8-) It is always better
than speculation
and reading between the lines.

---------- END OF FORWARDED MESSAGE ----------

