From: awdorn@primenet.com (Alexander W. Dorn)
Newsgroups: comp.sys.amiga.advocacy
Subject: Re: ain't happenin'
Date: 29 Jul 1997 09:58:01 -0700
Organization: Primenet
Lines: 139
Message-ID: <5rl7ep$i71@nntp02.primenet.com>
References: <5rfdfg$cim@nntp02.primenet.com>
Reply-To: awdorn@primenet.com
X-Posted-By: @207.218.55.44 (awdorn)
X-Newsreader: Forte Free Agent 1.0.82
Path: 195.95.96.2!news.unisource.be!News.Amsterdam.UnisourceCS!ubnnews.unisource.ch!news-zh.switch.ch!news-hh.maz.net!news.ivm.net!blackbush.xlink.net!howland.erols.net!www.nntp.primenet.com!globalcenter0!news.primenet.com!news.primenet.com!not-for-mail

Jack andrews <amiga@primenet.com> wrote:

| A VRML browser is crucial and it ain't happenin' folks  :(

| All attempts are either vaporware or stalled pipe dream attempts.

| Too bad, could make the Amiga shine. But face the music people, SOFTWARE
| DEVELOPEMENT IS NEARLY DEAD...and even the greatest new machine won't cut
| it without the software.

Unfortrunately, while this does seem so, it is my opinion that
software development is not dead, but patiently awaiting which
direction to move forward in.  Should they continue developing for the
68k Processor?  For the PowerUP Board (which are supposed to be on the
market by now!?), or for pOS?  Or should they wait for a new PPC
AmigaOS?

As for VRML/etc., well, I've seen Quake on the Amiga, and it is damn
slow.  It might be usable on an 060 machine, but I don't think most
people have 060 machines.  If a VRML Browser is would need as much
processing power as Amiga Quake, then it simply may not be practicle
to develop a 68k version of such.  The truth is, the Amiga does need a
major horsepower boost in order to do some of this newer stuff, and
again, the same old line that we've both been hearing for years is,
just wait a little longer.

| Even Newtek gave up on us.

This has been said in here before, but from what I have heard, this is
only because of a post here in the newsgroup.  As is my understanding,
Newtek has not *Officially* given up on the Amiga, but mearly demands
a few new features out of the AmigaOS (Memory Management!) before they
will continue development on it.

While there are people who have told me of some post in this newsgroup
by someone of importance, stating that they had "Given Up" on the
Amiga, until I see an official press release to the effect, and, well,
let's just say that I've seen some pretty wild statements made in the
newsgroups, and am reluctant to believe them all.

Someone actually posted that Amiga International had hired two new
people to head up their new OS development team - Irving Gould and
Medhi Ali.

| Gateway ain't doin it either.

| All "big plans" no action. 

Gateway 2000 has had the Amiga for how long now?  Two months?  Sure,
while Escom was able to take the Amiga from an out-of-production
platform to Manufacturing new Amigas in six months (!?), Gateway did
not even really know what the Amiga was before they bought it.  It was
a name, a word that they had heard once, and was probably selling for
what they considered a very low price.

We don't know -- perhaps they do have a plan of action, and are simply
waiting to insure that they can initiate such an action.  It's not
like Petro T. has not had his plans ruined before by circumstances.
Remember the Walker?  Even back then, Petro T. wanted to push the
Amiga into being a PPC Machine, but circumstance, and the Escom
Bankruptsy thwarted his efforts.

| As I said here long ago....

| "wait and see" (Yeah right, big comeback, just around the corner, yeah,
| right) ...ain't happenin'  2 years, 3 years, next month, next summer...

| BULLSHIT.  ain't happenin'  Give it up... Stop torturing yourselves with
| FALSE HOPE.

As I often put into my Signature:

"Hope, it is the Instinct of our Souls, and the Energizer of our
minds."

Hope is the one force that has kept the Amiga alive through two
bankruptsy proceedings, and the seemingly endless chatter from
VIScorp, which seems to have done more damage to the Amiga than either
bankruptsy (taking Almanthra, and how many others with it!).

The fact is, there will be a future for the Amiga.  The fact is, if
Gateway 2000 doesn't take the leadership position, or allow Petro
T./Amiga International to do so, then others will -- perhaps Phase 5
with their A/Box Concept.  Perhaps PIOS with their TransAm.

I do believe that, Phase 5, by putting their PPC Developer's boards
into the hands of many Amiga developers, may be making the winning
move, allowing Amiga Software Developers the luxury of a PPC
Processor's raw computing power.

The fact is, while the Amiga was frozen in suspended animation for the
last few years,  the PC market has not been the only ones movig
forward.  The Amiga Community has been moving forward without the
Amiga.  Many others have stepped forward, claiming the throne of
"Amiga Successor," but hope for a new Amiga has kept this throne
vacant, and kept the Amiga Community looking forward to a true
successor.

Should that successor not come from Gateway2000 and/or Amiga
International, in a given amount of time, then they shall choose a
different successor.  BeOS?  pOS?  Linux?

Now, while I, personally, am somewhat uncompfortable, not knowing if
they, GW2k/A.Intl, intend to choose the PowerPC Processor as a
successor, or really not knowing anything at all of their plans for a
next-generation Amiga, the steps they are taking seem good.

Through Licenseing, they are expanding the base of 68k Amigas.  Sure,
they may be low-end, but those low-end machines can serve their
purpose in many efficiant and effective ways, if just as kiosks.  I,
myself, may come up with a use for such machines, which may make me a
bit of money on the side, and the one thing that has been holding me
back from exploring this idea was not knowing if they would be
available.

They have *unofficially* announced a new version of the Operating
System for release, perhaps, by November of this year.  They have
hired new staff, and seem to be poising themselves to take some sort
of action, like a cat ready to pounce.

Now then, if you have projects that you need to get done, and you do
not think that you can get them done on your current Amiga platform,
then do what you must to get them done, even if this includes going
Wintel, but I would suggest that you do not give up on the Amiga--not
yet.  Gently blow upon those embers of hope, and try to bring them
back to a gentle flame.  Even if you just shove the Amiga in the
closet for a while, and use another platform to get things done, be
sure to check back with the Amiga Community every once in a while.

You may find, in a few months, there may be good reason to pull that
old Amiga back out of the Closet.
---
Thank you for your time

Alexander W. Dorn
---
As long as there is life, there is hope.
		--- The Doctor

