--------- START OF FORWARDED MESSAGE ---------

From System ....: Internet
From Conference : comp.sys.amiga.misc
MessageID ......: <33932f9f.309745700@news.jersey.net>
Originally from : Dave Haynie <dhaynie@jersey.net> <612832559>
Subject ........: Re: Amiga custom chips (was Re: What GW2k and Petro DIDN'T say..)

On Fri, 30 May 1997 13:06:23 -0400, "J, Walt Covington"
<cov3@ix.netcom.com> wrote:

>George Noel wrote:

>> Above all this, you have to realize the Amiga's chipset DOES MORE THEN
>> JUST GRAPHICS AND SOUND! 

Right -- but every other function is a simple commodity thing, and a
bad one at that. There's the floppy controller -- sure it does
sectorless formats, but only up to 880K on a 1MB raw disc, which is
silly in these days of 100MB floppy replacements, not to mention the
last "classic" floppy formats at 2MB and 4MB (unformatted). The serial
port was known to suck years ago, being unbuffered as it is. Of
course, all the handshake signals, and the parallel port, come from
8520s, which are basically what you had in the C64, only clocked at
716kHz rather than 1.02MHz. As far as "glue", the Amiga chips are way
behind on glue. The ECS chips support a 68000 bus to some extent, but
both ECS and AA need lots of extra support logic (Gary/Gayle, etc) to
work on any 32-bit bus. The only things at all interesting are the
sound and graphics, and those are three or four generations behind. 

>> Think of them being the equivalent of the chips
>> Intel makes and puts on their motherboards.. 

They're not. If you add in Buster, Gary, RAMSEY, etc. from the A3000,
the 8520s, and about 30 TTL chips, etc. then you're getting warm. But
that's two or three chips in an Intel system, assuming they leave
sound and graphics modular. 

>> As a matter of fact, it seems while the Amiga is trying to be more like PC clones, PC clones are trying to be  
>> more like the Amiga was in '85.. architecture wise.

Not really; there's nothing out there that works all that much like an
Amiga. PCs have incorporated most of the good ideas from the Amiga
(they're still missing a copper, but that's probably because other
things, like motion video and 3D, have occupied the graphics work
lately), but usually in new architectures, since it's been fairly well
proven difficult at best to retrofit the original primitive PC
architectures with better architecture (graphics was kind of the
turning point, mainly because IBM didn't set a timely standard, so the
industry adopted software specifications rather than hardware ones,
freeing everyone to head their own way). 

>In a sense, surprisingly enough, there is some truth to the proposition
>that present and future x86 clone technology is heading in the same
>direction the Amiga started with so long ago.

I made this basic point years ago -- there's enough emphasis on the
kind of stuff the Amiga was designed for, but out in 1990s
implementations, to make it somewhere between foolish and difficult to
do any better outside of that technology envelope. 

>Cyrix, I believe, is
>currently enjoying some success with its low-end GX processors which
>include sound circuitry, SVGA circuitry, and cpu circuitry on the same
>chip.  Their GX processor is undoubtedly a "custom chip."  

All their processors are. So are all modern graphics chips. None are
particularly like the Amiga chips, but they're all done in custom
silicon, based on custom designs. The only practical difference is
that the Amiga chips were never offered for sale to systems
developers, while of course all chips companies, who are doing the
vast majority of custom chip work, only live by selling to as many
systems houses as possible. 

> 
Ceative labs
>has just announced a new, local bus PCI sb32 chip which is specifically
>designed to sit in its own local PCI bus in future x86 motherboard
>designs.  I believe that Intel has already announced its intention to
>use this technology in upcoming motherboards, as it is reportedly fully
>backwards-compatible with the SB16 specification which has become
>x86-industry default.  Up to now, for technical reasons, you couldn't
>use the PCI bus for sound but that limitation has changed. 

There has never been any technical reason you couldn't use PCI for
sound, and sound cards for PCI have been on the market for many years.
These have generally been for high-end applications, not for
Soundblaster replacement game play. The only limitation was software
-- since so many games ran under MS-DOS and assumed a SoundBlaster
register model, game cards had to provide this model. Which can't be
legally done on PCI, since you have no control over where the
registers are mapped. But really, the only reason Creative will make a
PCI SoundBlaster is that they're being forced to by the market -- they
can make consumers think they're getting something better, so they'll
sell upgrades, and they'll be ready for ISA-less PCs, which will
happen eventually, now that Microsoft has called for the end of the
ISA bus in PCs. 

>In many
>current x86 motherboard designs at present there are a variety of
>"custom chips" employed and fully integrated into the mobo design for
>sound, graphics, bus control, and a variety of other I/O functions. 

In all PCs. Some of these live on the motherboard, some on cards. One
nice feature of PCI is that it makes absolutely no difference, a PCI
chip on a card is identical to a PCI chip on a motherboard. 

>When the Amiga was first introduced, you couldn't buy the equivalent
>hardware in a consumer product at a consumer price--it didn't exist,
>which is the reason the Amiga hardware was so superior in 1985 through
>the end of its design cycle in 1993.

Not only that, no one gave much thought to graphics. The best you
could do with the available "graphics controllers" was to combine some
memory and TTL and get a very primitive thing, like IBM's MDA or CGA.
Only the game systems, like C64 and the Ataris, used highly integrated
designs, made possible because they sold in the millions. The Amiga
had the same aspirations, and really was the first personal computer
to leverage custom chip design for performance rather than cost
effectiveness. No one had done that before. But a few years later, IBM
had the PS/2 systems out, with an IBM-designed custom chip they called
the Video Gate Array (VGA), that did better colors, at least, than the
Amiga (at the time, it wasn't as fast in any of the interesting
modes). 

>If we have an Amiga hardware base that is close
>to industry standard and amenable to quick and painless hardware
>upgrades, that's great news for Amiga users.  But if we want to revert
>to an old-fashioned view that says a closed, proprietary system is
>better, then we will suffer the consequences of long delays between
>hardware improvements and when we finally get those improvements they
>will be much more expensive and most likely already starting to lag
>behind in capability.  

That's right. The reason the Amiga can't depend on custom hardware is
the reason very few system house of any kind develop custom hardware
in the personal computer market -- the chip companies do it better, in
vastly higher volumes than any single system house will sell. It's the
same reason no one did their own CPUs back in the 70s and 80s. True,
there was a small window of opprotunity, with RISC, to get something
as fast as a CISC out simply: Sun did this with the first SPARC, Acorn
did this with the ARM. But both of these were blown away once real
chip companies started using RISC techniques -- they survive today
only because real chip companies got involved, and only SPARC is still
a viable desktop CPU. 

>Oh, yes, almost forgot. If you want to read up on the latest
>computer-to-TV consumer-based technology being developed on the x86 side
>of the fence, go over to Matrox (www.Matrox.com) and read up on the
>"Rainbow Runner Studio."  It costs about $250 and goes a long way toward
>merging current x86 tech with television and video editing. 

There are quite a few systems emerging now for good video support over
PCI. Some of this is specifically designed as video hardware (like my
pals at Quadrant International), others are merging video features
into mainstream PCI and VGA stuff. The latter is happening because of
the fact that home use of PC has grown so much companies are
developing specifically for that, and because Microsoft put "video
output" on their list of demands for "PC97". Few companies
wholeheatedly suck down the Microsoft specs in one fell swoop, but
they do set directions, especially when in many cases companies were
thinking that way anyway, and were hoping for a MS seal of approval to
make it hit bigtime. 

Dave Haynie         | Scala Research & Development
Sr. System Engineer | Dave.Haynie@scala.com

---------- END OF FORWARDED MESSAGE ----------

