--------- START OF FORWARDED MESSAGE ---------

From System ....: Internet
From Conference : comp.sys.amiga.misc
MessageID ......: <5ni17a$3vn@flood.xnet.com>
Originally from : Jason Compton <jcompton@typhoon.xnet.com> <613442890>
Subject ........: Re: What's AI Doing?

Darren (develand@uoguelph.ca) wrote:
: Olaf Barthel (olsen@sourcery.han.de) wrote:
: 
: :    Don't start guessing and making rumours, continue encouraging
: : Gateway2000 and Mr Petro Tyschtschenko to provide funding for
: : 1 R&D lead, up to 8 developers, 1 technical support guy and
: : 1 marketing/press officer, plus revive the development process
: : that would have given us the Walker (no, I don't want to discuss
: : how the casing looked like and whether it was such a brilliant
: : idea to go with the 68EC030). We need all the help we can get.
: 
: Surely you don't want the Walker introduced? Non-standard slot, EC030,
: AGA.  Amiga users have had this for years.  What we would like is some 
: more standardized components, like PCI for example.  If you are talking 
: about designing a new motherboard please think about this... Of course it 
: may take some time, but I am willing to wait for a properly designed 
: system :=)  

Darren, he said he didn't want to discuss it.  My impression is that
"revive the development process that would have given us the Walker" means
that it will give us something different now.

: Also, how about approaching PIOS to make a 68K card for their PIOS ONE 
: until the OS can be ported?  You are probably talking over 1 year to 
: fully port the OS to PowerPC.  I don't know how much OS tweaking it would 
: take to get the AmigaOS to run on a PIOS one, but much of that work (ie. 
: making it work with PCI), could be used in future boxes.

Sounds like a big hardware job to me.  That and, has there been a working
PIOS ONE yet?

: On a side note, I am wondering why PIOS doesn't offer a 68K card with 
: AmigaOS to start out with (or perhaps they are trying to do this now that 
: Amiga is owned by someone?) since that is what most amiga users that I have 
: talked to want...

Well, if you get into running AmigaOS you get into other issues.  Like, to
get certain programs to work correctly you still need a CIA (at least one,
like late-model Dracos have).  You need to patch the OS to get it to boot.
You'd need to adopt CyberGraphX or Picasso 96 (more likely the former
since we've seen it done.)  That's not something even Dave Haynie can do
overnight, you know.

-- 
Jason Compton                                 jcompton@xnet.com
Editor-in-Chief, Amiga Report Magazine        Anchor, Amiga Legacy
WWW - http://www.cucug.org/ar/                www.xnet.com/~jcompton/
    To see reflected there...the trees, the sky, the lily fair...

---------- END OF FORWARDED MESSAGE ----------

