--------- START OF FORWARDED MESSAGE ---------

From System ....: Internet
From Conference : comp.sys.amiga.misc
MessageID ......: <33B14EDE.1EF81FB8@ix.netcom.com>
Originally from : J, Walt Covington <cov3@ix.netcom.com> <614804478>
Subject ........: Re: What's AI Doing?

Jason Compton wrote:

> 
> I've said it before and will repeat it: I can't envision a reasonable
> scenario for 1983-1985 which would have turned the Amiga into the #1
> computer platform.  The PC dominance we see had its seeds planted way
> before Commodore shipped the first 1000.


Honestly, I can certainly imagine that happening post-1985.  Commodore
had companies lined up almost begging for the rights to clone the
Amiga.  I well remember negotiations with Tandy that came "this close"
to fruition.  Tandy wanted to build and market an Amiga clone and sell
them in all of their 6000 or so Radio Shack stores, from coast to cost. 
Commodore said "no"--it was rumored the deal crashed because C= had
asked for way too much money for licensing fees, according to Tandy. As
I recall, the fellow who runs (or ran) Electronic Arts (forgotten his
name at the moment) was a *huge* Amiga fan in the beginning and would
have done a lot to promote and sell Amigas and Amiga clones had it not
been for C='s stubborn refusal to promote and sponsor Amiga cloning.  It
was a long time ago, but I can well remember scads of companies who were
initially "on fire" for the Amiga. I can also remember C= throwing cold
water in just about everybody's face.

The simple truth is that back in the period from 1985 to well into the
early 90's, there was nothing that could hold a candle to the Amiga. 
The potential of the platform was both enormous and remarkable.  I can
well remember the "Amiga screen shots" that were *always* featured on
the back of software entertainment packages, even when the titles were
released for MS-DOS and CGA (there'd be a little asterisk denoting the
fact that "Screenshots featured are from the Amiga version of the
software.  Other versions may differ.")  And differ they did!  The
difference was night and day.

Yes, the potential was there.  The problem was that C= did not have the
vision to understand what most likely would have transpired had it
instituted a liberal and reasonable cloning process from the start.  To
be fair, few major players realized what a huge personal computer market
would develop over the next ten years.  But some had at least an inkling
of what was to come.  And those people are on top today.

Microsoft or no Microsoft, Wintel would not be where it is today had IBM
declined to clone, just as C= did (and just as Apple did.)  Looking
back, the major differences in success did not have to do with technical
excellence, it had to do with product availability, competition and
marketing.  C= (just like Apple) simply could not meet demand for its
products acting alone.  So each and every quarter, even though it was
selling everything it could make, C= (just like Apple) wound up
progressively losing market share.  On top of that, because C= did not
bear the burden of intra-Amiga competition (it had to compete against no
other Amiga makers), the pace of Amiga R&D slowed to a leisurely pace
(just like with Apple.)  Contrast this with the IBM clone market in
which OEMs were fiercely competing with each other to make superior
IBM-compatible products.  The IBM architecture, because it depended on
no single company but rather dozens of companies competing with each
other, not only met product demand but also caused the overall market to
grow every quarter.

Had C= approached the situation from the beginning like IBM in allowing
clones, and like Microsoft in its commitment and focus, I think that
today things would be radically different.  I think the Amiga
architecture could have bested the Wintel architecture in pervasiveness,
no doubt about it. But this is history.  Those days, and the
opportunity, are long gone.

Last, you say "the PC seeds" were long planted before the A1000
shipped.  That's true only in a metaphorical sense.  At the time the
A1000 was shipped, it was so much better, radically better, in
practically every category, that had C= taken the steps that IBM and
Microsoft took, the Amiga architecture would have eclipsed the
by-comparison pathetic PC architecture very quickly.  In an environment
in 1986-1989 in which the Amiga was being made, sold, and promoted by
dozens of companies, and in which C= was energetically behind the Amiga
OS, the "PC seeds" you mention in the personal computer landscape would
have become little more than weeds. No, in 1985 the future was
definitely not fixed.

But as I say, sadly, today such is not the case.




Wretched regards,

J. "Walt" Covington
cov3@ix.netcom.com

Pre-emptive multitasking:
The Lost Art of Personal Computing

---------- END OF FORWARDED MESSAGE ----------

