--------- START OF FORWARDED MESSAGE ---------

From System ....: Internet
From Conference : comp.sys.amiga.misc
MessageID ......: <865652511mnewsterry.coles@which.net>
Originally from : Terry Coles <terry.coles@which.net> <613177311>
Subject ........: OS Beer

Hi All

This message has been circulating at work for a few days now.  I haven't seen it on
Usenet, (not the Amiaga groups anyway), so I thought that I would post it.

I think that it is funny anyway...


Beer

DOS Beer: Requires you to use your own can opener and requires you to read
the directions carefully before opening the can. Originally, it only came in
an 8 oz. can, but now it comes in a 16 oz. can. However, the can is divided
into 8 compartments of 2 oz. each, which have to be accessed separately.
Soon to be discontinued, although alot of people are going to keep drinking
it after it's no longer available.

Mac Beer: At first, it only came in a 16 oz. can, but now it comes in a 32
oz. can. Considered by many to be a "light" beer.  All of the cans look
identical. When you take one from the refrigerator, it opens itself. The
ingredients list is not on the can. If you call to ask about the
ingredients, you are told that "You don't need to know". A notice on the
side reminds you to drag your empties to the trashcan.

Windows 3.1 Beer: The world's most popular beer. It comes in a 16 oz. can
that looks alot like Mac Beer's. Requires that you already own a DOS Beer.
Claims that it allows you to drink several DOS Beers simultaneously, but in
reality, you can only drink a few of them, very slowly... especially slowly
if you are drinking the Windows 3.1 Beer at the same time.  Sometimes, for
apparently no reason, a can of Windows 3.1 Beer will explode when you open
it.

OS/2 Beer: Comes in a 32 oz. can. Does allow you to drink several DOS Beers
simultaneously. Allows you to drink Windows 3.1 Beer simultaneously too, but
somehwat slower. Advertises that its' cans won't explode when you open them,
even if you shake them up. You never really see anyone drinking OS/2 Beer,
but the manufacturer (International Beer Manufacturing) claims that 9
million six-packs have been sold.

Windows 95 Beer: A lot of people have taste-tested it and claim that it's
wonderful. The can looks alot like Mac Beer's can, but tastes more like
Windows 3.1 Beer. It comes in 32 oz. cans, but when you look inside, the
cans only have 16 oz. of beer in them. Most people will probably keep
drinking Windows 3.1 Beer until their friends try Windows 95 Beer and say
that they like it. The ingredients list, when you look at the small print,
has some of the same ingredients that come in DOS Beer, even though the
manufacturer claims that this is an entirely new brew.

Windows NT Beer: Comes in 32 oz. cans, but you can only buy it by the
truckload. This causes most people to have to go out and buy bigger
refrigerators. The can looks just like Windows 3.1 Beer's can, but the
company promises to change the can to look just like Windows 95 Beer's can.
Touted as an "industrial strength" beer and suggested only for use in bars.

UNIX Beer: Comes in several different brands, and in cans ranging from 8 oz.
to 64 oz. Drinkers of UNIX Beer display fierce brand loyalty, even though
they claim that all of the different brands taste almost identical.
Sometimes the pop-tops break off when you try to open them, so you have to
have your own can opener around for those occassions, in which case you
either need a complete set of instructions or a friend who has been drinking
UNIX beer for several years. A "light" version of this beer also exists,
called LINUX Beer.

AmigaDOS Beer: The company has gone out of business, but their recipe has
been picked up by some weird German company, so now this beer will be an
import. This beer never really sold very well because the original
manufacturer didn't understand marketing. Like UNIX Beer, AmigaDOS Beer fans
are an extremely loyal and loud group. It originally came in a 16 oz. can,
but now it comes in 32 oz. cans too. When this can was originally
introduced, it appeared flashy and colorful, but the design hasn't changed
much over the years, so it appears dated now. Critics of this beer claim
that it is only meant for watching TV anyway.

VMS Beer: Requires minimal user interaction, except for popping the top and
sipping. However, cans have been known on occassion to explode, or contain
extremely un-beer-like contents. Best drunk in high-pressure development
environments.  When you call the manufacturer for the list of ingredients,
you're told that it is proprietary and referred to an unknown listing in the
manuals published by the FDA. Rumors have it that this was once listed in
the Physician's Desk Reference as a tranquilizer, but no one claims to have
actually seen it.


                  
                           Terry Coles

                                  - Member of Team AMIGA

  Amiga CD32, SX32, 8Mb Fast Memory, 540Mb Hard Drive, 14.4 Modem

                                               It Works Great!



---------- END OF FORWARDED MESSAGE ----------

