From: psychospy@aol.com
X-Mailer: America Online Mailer
Sender: "psychospy" <psychospy@aol.com>
Message-Id: <9404200923.tn75239@aol.com>
Date: Wed, 20 Apr 94 09:23:35 EDT
Subject: ABC News Groom Lake Transcript
Content-Type: text
Content-Length: 4412
Status: R

[Supplement to the Groom Lake Desert Rat.  Transcribed without 
permission.]

REPORT ON GROOM LAKE
ABC World News Tonight
April 19, 1994

Peter Jennings:  Finally from us this evening, the road to 
Dreamland.  And there really is such a place, though you are not 
supposed to know about it, and the U.S. Air Force is unhappy with 
us because we're going to tell you about it.  The Dreamland we are 
talking about is actually an Air Force base in Nevada.  The 
Russians know about it, so why not you?  ABC's Jimmy Walker has 
the results of an ABC News investigation....

Jimmy Walker:  We are one hundred miles from Las Vegas driving 
across the Nevada desert on public land.  There is more here than 
meets the eye.  A few feet off the dirt road, an electronic sensor 
is hidden in the sagebrush.

Glenn Campbell:  [Radio static in background.]  The base control 
has relayed to the patrols that someone has crossed one of their 
sensors.  That's us.

Walker:  So they now know...

Campbell:  They know we're here.  They'll be here in about ten 
minutes.

Walker:  Sure enough, minutes later, a white Jeep goes by.  
Someone is very interested in who visits this particular piece of 
scrub.  That someone is the U.S. Air Force.  A helicopter flies 
out to investigate us.  It comes from Groom Lake, one of the most 
closely guarded military facilities in the country.

The secret air base which some people call Dreamland or others 
Watertown or still others Area 51 is located about twelve miles 
over in that direction.  It's clearly visible but the government 
won't acknowledge that it even exists.  And to photograph it would 
violate the Espionage Act.  

Military historians say the U-2 spy plane was tested at Groom 
Lake.  More recently, the Stealth fighter.  But the base does not 
appear on any map, and for the record, the Pentagon will only say 
that Groom Lake is part of the vast Nellis Range complex.

Enter Glenn Campbell and Peter Merlin, members of a group that 
believes the Air Force has too many secrets and not enough 
accountability.  Armed with lawn chairs and binoculars, they set 
up shop on public land overlooking the air base.  And they're 
driving the Air Force crazy.

Peter Merlin:  There's some large hangers.  One is quite enormous.  
And a control tower....

Walker:  As a result of the prying eyes, the Air Force is trying 
to expropriate this hilltop and an adjoining one to add to the 
4700 square miles it already controls, saying it's needed for 
safety reasons.

Campbell:  There was the suggestion that people sitting on this 
ridge like we are doing might be hit by aircraft.

Walker:  The pending land grab has turned the hilltops into a 
tourist attraction, drawing even more attention to the base.  Last 
month at a federal hearing in Las Vegas, officials got an earful.

Angry Citizen at Hearing:  The place is big enough already.  How 
much expansion do they need?  That place is safe.  It's stupid.

Another Citizen at Hearing:  There have already been allegations 
that environmental crimes have been committed there.  Now you're 
asking for 4000 more acres to hide behind.

Walker:  What's more, buy this model plane kit [Testor's "Thunder 
Dart"] and you get with it [on the] directions this 1988 
photograph of the base taken by a Soviet satellite.  The pentagon 
says it's okay to show you this picture.

Campbell:  The only people this base is being kept secret from are 
the American people, the people who pay for it.

Walker:  Our story took an unexpected turn as we prepared to 
leave.  We spotted a Sheriff's car heading our way.

Deputy (at driver's window):  We're investigating the possibility 
of a criminal offense.

Walker:  And what would that criminal offense be?

Deputy:  Sir, may I see your driver's license, please.

Walker:  They believed we were photographing the facility.  They 
were wrong.  We were detained, questioned and searched.  Our 
camera, audio equipment and some video tapes were confiscated.  
The Air Force held the gear for five days before returning it.  No 
charges were filed against us.

And every work day, a fleet of privately owned unmarked airliners 
shuttle more than 1500 workers from Las Vegas to the base that 
doesn't exist.

Campbell (looking through binoculars):  Yup, secret base out 
there.  Sure enough.  Same secret base as yesterday.

Walker:  James Walker, ABC News, Lincoln County, Nevada.

#####

