From: psychospy@aol.com
X-Mailer: America Online Mailer
Sender: "psychospy" <psychospy@aol.com>
Message-Id: <9403171104.tn92833@aol.com>
Date: Thu, 17 Mar 94 11:04:34 EST
Subject: Groom Lake Desert Rat #3
Status: R

THE GROOM LAKE DESERT RAT.   An On-Line Newsletter.
Issue #3.  Feb. 12, 1994.  
-----> "The Naked Truth from Open Sources." <-----
AREA 51/NELLIS RANGE/TTR/NTS/S-4?/WEIRD STUFF/DESERT LORE
Written, published, copyrighted and totally disavowed by 
psychospy, direct from the "UFO Capital," Rachel, Nevada.
See bottom for subscription/copyright info.

In this issue...
     PSYCHOSPY SUFFERS CONVULSIONS
     POPULAR SCIENCE COVER STORY
     GROOM TOUR INFO
     THERE IS NO CRISIS CORNER
     FUN WITH SENSORS
     SENSOR UPDATE
     IN BRIEF
     WISDOM OF JACK D. RIPPER

[Note: This file ends with "#####"  Check for truncation.]

----- PSYCHOSPY SUFFERS CONVULSIONS -----

It seemed like an ordinary day in an ordinary mobile home park 
not too far from a not-too-secret secret base where nothing out 
of the ordinary ever seemed to happen.  A man went to his mailbox 
to get the mail.  It seemed like ordinary mail at first:  some 
bills, a newspaper, ten million dollars from Ed McMahon and yet 
another flyer from the Jehovah's Witnesses.

But there was more.  Just behind the envelope bearing Ed's 
smiling face was another, much bigger envelope.  It had no return 
address but was postmarked in California.  It seemed like an 
ordinary envelope.

The man couldn't guess what was inside the envelope.  How could 
he have possibly known?  On such an ordinary day in this ordinary 
place it was easy to let down ones guard.  The man never even 
considered that the envelope might contain something dangerous, 
like a letter bomb or an IRS injunction.  HE WAS THAT KIND OF 
TRUSTING SOUL.

He opened the envelope.

The man stared at what he found.  It was a document with the word 
SECRET on the front.  Disbelief was the man's first reaction.  
Stunned silence.  He did not think the document was real until he 
began to glance through its pages.  The man looked again at the 
cover of the document.

That's when it began.  A strange sound started to gurgle in the 
man's throat.  It got louder and louder until bursting forth from 
his mouth with terrible, unexpected fury.  It almost sounded like 
laughter, but it wasn't any normal, healthy kind of laugh.  I was 
more of a cackle.  It was like the evil, psychotic laugh of the 
Wicked Old Witch of the West after sending out the flying monkeys 
and threatening, "I'll get you my pretty!"

The man could not control himself.  The horrible utterance 
possessed him like a demon and shook his whole body with violent 
spasms.  Convulsions.  His arms flailed.  His legs collapsed 
beneath him.  With an almost superhuman effort, he dragged 
himself to the desk and dialed the telephone.  He dialed a number 
in California.  It rang and rang, and then a machine answered and 
said to leave a message.  The man tried to speak but only the 
hideous, cackling sound came out.  It exploded in wave after wave 
of uncontrollable screeches, until the machine cut off and the 
line went dead.

The man dropped the phone.  Then he collapsed and died.

This story is STRANGE BUT TRUE (all except the part about the man 
dying, which was added for dramatic effect).  IT COULD HAPPEN TO 
YOU.

It WILL happen to you--although perhaps less violently--when you 
see the March edition of POPULAR SCIENCE magazine.

----- POPULAR SCIENCE COVER STORY -----

"SECRET AIR BASE" it says in big letters on the cover, beside a 
Soviet satellite image of the Groom Lake facility.

Other words on the cover say:  "The government doesn't want you 
to know what's going on at Groom Lake, Nevada.  Officially, the 
facility that developed the U-2 & SR-71 Blackbird spy planes 
doesn't exist.  In fact, it continues to expand, and now the Air 
Force wants to grab 4,000 acres of public land to keep curious 
civilians away.  Are there shadowy projects underway that 
citizens have a right to know about?"

The article inside recalls the exploits of a hardy band of 
aviation buffs who hang out at the border of the Groom base 
trying to catch a glimpse of rumored secret aircraft that never 
seem to materialize.  In reality, it's a futile exercise in 
hypothermia, but here on the pages of Popular Science, these 
hopelessly distracted, get-a-life males are presented as heroic 
crusaders fighting for our freedom.

We see no reason to complain, however.  We have been stumbling 
along in this seemingly hopeless battle to save the viewpoints.  
We have run off a few flyers, sent out some letters and hoped 
that someone would listen.  Suddenly, the game has changed.  It's 
like someone has taken one of our flyers, run off 1.8 million 
copies and displayed it in every Safeway Supermarket, Seven-
Eleven and Thrifty Drug in the world.

Excuse us if we cackle.

Readers may or may not agree that the larger-than-life "Groom 
Lake Interceptors" are doing the right thing.  Certainly, many in 
the defense establishment would call them misguided.  Our need 
for a secure facility did not end with the Cold War, they say.

One thing this article does prove, however, is the importance of 
public relations and the dangers of ignoring it.  The existence 
of the Groom base has long been one of the worst kept secrets in 
the world; yet, the military has stubbornly clung to the awkward 
position that the place doesn't exist.  This cripples the 
military more than anyone else, because spokesmen cannot respond 
to legitimate claims and questions, and speculations rage out of 
control.  Everyone loves a secret base, and the more hush-hush it 
is, the more people want to know.  

Once upon a time, the press kept a respectable distance from 
Groom because of the perceived Soviet threat.  Now, the world has 
changed but the Pentagon hasn't.  The withdrawal application was 
just the spark necessary to set off a press feeding frenzy.  In 
the past few months, the crisis has gotten deeper and deeper, and 
no one in the Air Force has taken any action to address it.  Cold 
War Colonels have been trying to handle the withdrawal in the 
brute-force, Reagan-era way while leadership from above seems 
entirely absent.  We sense an aimless drift in the handling of 
this affair and suspect it is related to the change of guard at 
the Defense Department.

Now, the AF is in a major bind.  Instead of announcing the base 
gradually on its own terms, the AF is being forced to address all 
the charges at once under conditions of acute embarrassment.  A 
few months ago, they could have probably gotten away with saying, 
"Yes, there's a base at Groom but we can't tell you what's going 
on there."  Now, everyone wants to know everything, and it's hard 
to imagine the frenzy subsiding until they start offering public 
tours.

With this is mind, here's how to request a tour yourself....

----- GROOM TOUR INFO -----

In response to our report on the Caliente hearing [Desert Rat 
#2], TRADER@cup.portal.com has told us more about the AF 
representative, Col. "Bud" Bennett.  His real name is Col. Warren 
A. Bennett, Jr. and he is Commander of the 554th Range Squadron.  
At least that's how the Colonel signed a reply to TRADER's 
request to tour the Groom facility.  The Colonel wrote: 

"Thank you for your letter of January 3, 1994, requesting a tour 
of part of the Nellis Range Complex.  I have forwarded your 
request to the appropriate officials.  You should receive a 
response shortly."

We are jealous of TRADER, because when the AF does open up the 
Groom base to public tours, he is going to be first in line.  If 
you want to be just behind him, we suggest your write to Col. 
Bennett right away to request your own permission to visit.  Even 
if he can't grant your request himself, the Colonel evidently 
knows where to send it.

Write to:
    Col. Warren A. Bennett, Jr.
    554th Range Squadron
    3770 Duffer Drive
    Nellis AFB, NV 89191-7001

----- THERE IS NO CRISIS CORNER -----

Psychospy goofed.  Can you forgive us?

On page 56 of the Popular Science article is a handsome 3-D map 
of the proposed withdrawal area.  It shows three separate parcels 
of land:  To the north is White Sides; in the center is Freedom 
Ridge, and to the south is Crisis Corner.  This map is based on 
our initial plotting of the township/range specifications 
appearing in the Air Force's formal application to BLM.  For the 
record, the exact specifications for the withdrawal, as shown in 
the application, are as follows:

    In Township 6 South Range 56 East sections 25 and 36.
    In Township 6 South Range 57 East section 31 and The West
       1/2 of section 30.
    In Township 7 South Range 56 East section 1, The West 1/2
       of section 13, and the Northwest 1/4 of section 24.
    In Township 7 South Range 57 East section 6.
    Located in Lincoln County, Nevada, USA.

When we first received a copy of the application, we plotted the 
sections on a map.  We double- and triple-checked our work, then 
sent the map to our supporters around the world.

Most of the sections were no surprise.  The north and central 
parcels were perfect "G-strings" covering the naked viewpoints of 
White Sides and Freedom Ridge, where the public might jeopardize 
its "safety" by casting eyes upon the indecencies at Groom Lake.  
The southern parcel was a mystery, however.  We dubbed it "Crisis 
Corner," although the crisis taking place there wasn't clear.  We 
made several tours of this parcel trying to find the viewpoints 
that the military must have wanted to neutralize, but all 
potential views of Groom Lake were blocked by higher hills 
already within the Zone.  The most we could see was a small 
portion of the southern Emigrant Valley where there were no 
obvious installations.  Numerous theories ran through our heads 
about what the land might be needed for.

The solution only occurred to us at the Caliente hearing, when 
the AF public relations people briefly showed a transparency of 
the proposed withdrawal area.  There were only two parcels shown!  
This prompted us to recheck our work, and, yes, we found that 
Crisis Corner existed only in our imagination.  We had misread 
the map and plotted two sections in the wrong place: Township 8 
instead of Township 6.  The AF is not seeking any land south of 
Freedom Ridge.

The error is minor.  It doesn't effect White Sides or Freedom 
Ridge.  It only clears up a mystery.  Now, there is not the 
slightest ambiguity about the AF's intentions.  The only sections 
being sought are those that offer a direct view of the Groom 
facility.

We are deeply embarrassed by our mistake.  At the same time, we 
feel the exhilarating rush of fame and power in seeing OUR ERROR 
reproduced 1.8 million times and distributed to every corner of 
the globe.

----- FUN WITH SENSORS -----

[In an article in the Dec. 93 issue of INTERCEPTS NEWSLETTER, we 
reported the following.]

Here's a challenge to you radio buffs:  Find the sensors planted 
on public land around the perimeter of the top secret Groom Lake 
base.  The most common kind are magnetic anomaly detectors 
planted beside dirt roads to detect passing cars.  If you happen 
to drive past one of these, you can be certain that the 
anonymous, camouflage-clad dudes in the white Jeep Cherokees will 
be along in a few minutes to shadow you, even if you go nowhere 
near the border.

The sensor apparatus consists of two detection units--plastic 
canisters about the size of soft drink cans buried beside the 
road.  Inside each are some primitive electronics and a coil, 
which senses any big hunk of metal passing nearby.  The two 
detection units are wired to a transmitter hidden in bushes about 
twenty feet away.  The transmitter is about the size of a gallon 
paint can and takes its power from some batteries contained in a 
nearby ammo can.  Given the vastness of the desert here, finding 
these devices seems almost impossible at first, and it took us 
many months to locate even one.  Most of the dirt roads 
approaching the Restricted Zone are miles long, and the sensors 
could be anywhere.  You can't home in on them with a radio even 
if you know the frequency, because they transmit only a single 
brief pulse when they detect something--not enough to deduce the 
location from afar.

The solution?  We cruise the roads with a frequency counter, set 
on its fastest gate time.  When 496.25 MHz comes onto the 
display, we know we just passed one of those top secret sensors.  
We get out, comb the sides of the road and sure enough, there's 
another transmitter hiding in the bushes.  We have now found a 
dozen of these sensors in logical places, usually many miles from 
the border, and we have made a map of where they are.  Now, when 
we want to preserve our privacy on public land, we temporarily 
unscrew the antenna from the transmitter before driving by.  We 
are then very careful to replace the antenna after passing so as 
not to be accused of damaging government property.

We never cease to be amazed at how the apparatus of secrecy can 
be turned into a spotlight on its makers.  The transmitted pulse 
is available for anyone to pick up, so we are working now on ways 
to monitor the sensors ourselves.  We'll use them to keep track 
of the cammo dudes in the white Jeep Cherokees.

Alas, we may not get the chance to implement this particular 
plan.  We gave a copy of our map to local officials of BLM, the 
custodian of public lands.  BLM is not happy.  The Air Force has 
no jurisdiction on public land and is supposed to apply to BLM 
before it does this sort of thing.  Bad Air Force.  If you want 
the challenge of finding these sensors for yourself you better 
come soon, because we predict they won't remain in place for very 
long.

It's like the remote TV camera on a tripod that we once found on 
public land.  We had a picnic beside it, made faces into it from 
six inches away and scribbled our names on the legs.  Sure 
enough, within days, the camera vanished and reappeared on the 
other side of the border where it belongs.

Someone has to keep an eye on Big Brother!

----- SENSOR UPDATE -----

After the existence of the sensors was reported to BLM, a ranger 
was sent to dig up a couple of them.  Finding the sensors 
themselves turned out to be easier than finding who they belonged 
to.  The nonexistent base with the nonexistent security force is 
also protected by nonexistent sensors.  Initially, the AF neither 
confirmed nor denied their responsibility.

A break in the case came at the Caliente hearing.  When asked 
about the sensors, the BLM Area Manager confirmed that the AF had 
finally owned up.  He said BLM and the AF were "working together" 
to find an arrangement whereby the sensors could be laid legally.  
We asked whether the location of the sensors would be public 
information.  The Area Manager said no.  The AF would be given 
permission to lay sensors within specified parameters, probably 
up to five miles from the border.

We are concerned about the ethical and civil rights implications 
of a sensor network on public land.  The AF seized the Groom 
Range as a vast, unused buffer zone for Groom Lake.  If the land 
is formally under their control, we have no problem with them 
laying all the sensors they want on it.  Now they are saying that 
they need a buffer zone for the buffer zone.  It seems that no 
matter how much land we given them, they always want to control 
more.

With the sensor network tracking visitors and unidentified armed 
guards shadowing them many miles from the border, this land is 
not "public" at all.  It is a military controlled area, differing 
from the adjoining Restricted Zone only in the absence of a 
formal withdrawal.

If BLM will not defend the public's right to free and anonymous 
travel on public lands, then the Groom Lake Freedom Fighters 
will.  We are not happy about the sensors being there, but we 
feel we can live with them if we are able to map them and 
broadcast their locations to the world.  The AF has proposed to 
BLM the use of smaller, less intrusive devices that are 
presumably also harder to detect.  All the more sporting, we say!  
We'll invite radio buffs to join in regular "Easter Egg Hunts" to 
find the sensors and win prizes.  If the AF wants to set up the 
game board for us, we'll happily play it.

----- IN BRIEF -----

NEW SECURITY HUMMER.  In July 1993, the cammo dudes patrolling 
the Groom perimeter traded in their tan Blazers and Broncos for 
spiffy white Jeep Cherokees.  The choice of color wasn't terribly 
wise; these vehicles now stand out as bright beacons against the 
beige landscape and can be seen for miles.  However, a new, 
stealthier vehicle has also been spotted: an olive drab Humvee.  
This one is difficult to spot unless you're looking for it--or if 
the dudes choose to park it at the top of a prominent hill as 
they always seem to do.  (You can't teach old dudes new tricks.)

VEGAS LAND GRAB HEARING.  Nothing has changed regarding the Las 
Vegas land grab hearing, although the Popular Science article 
should greatly increase the attention.  It will be held Weds., 
March 2, 1994 from 5-8 pm at the Cashman Field House, rooms 203-
204.  (Cashman Field House is a stadium complex at 850 North Las 
Vegas Blvd. just north of Downtown.)  Each speaker will be 
limited to 3 minutes, so if you have something to say you will 
have to be organized and concise.  Flyers are a good way to get 
your point across; you can make them available at the door.  You 
can also continue to submit written comments to BLM up until the 
date of the hearing.  These comments DO have an effect.  At least 
they assure that the contents of the case file will be heavily 
weighted toward the opponents.  Apart from the paid military 
representatives, we have yet to hear of ANYONE offering support 
for the withdrawal, either in writing or at a hearing, but 
certainly twenty pounds of opposing comments are better than two.  
Be creative.  Think of your own angle on the withdrawal and 
explain it in a courteous letter to BLM.  Send comments to:

    Mr. Billy Templeton
    BLM Nevada State Director
    P.O. Box 12000
    Reno, NV 89520

Also send a copy of your letter to:

    Mr. Curtis Tucker
    BLM Caliente Area Manager
    P.O. Box 237
    Caliente, NV 89008

It is likely that Desert Rat #4 will be issued sometime before 
the hearing, with any late-breaking details reported therein.  If 
you are planning to attend the Las Vegas hearing and don't 
receive DR#4, then it may be a good idea to contact us a few days 
before for the latest plans.  

VEGAS POOP:  When in Vegas you SHOULD VISIT the Luxor pyramid.  
It's worth at least a 10 minute walk-through and the attractions 
inside are worth the price if the lines aren't too long.  The 
buffet is recommended, too.  DON'T BOTHER with the MGM Grand 
theme park.  It's a dud--a pale imitation of Disney.  Buffet's a 
dud, too.  DO SEE the free pirate battle in front of the Treasure 
Island casino, every 90 minutes starting 3:30.  There's nothing 
much of interest inside, however, and the buffets are 
unimpressive.  We usually recommend VACATION VILLAGE as the best 
place to spend the night on weekdays (2 miles south of Luxor, 
weekday rates as low as $20, 800-658-5000).  For the night of the 
hearing, however, we expect to be staying at a closer downtown 
hotel, Fitzgerald's (probably about $25-30, 800-274-5825).  On 
weekends, try NEVADA LANDING on I-15, Exit 12 ($31, 800-628-
6682).  Favorite buffets:  PALACE STATION and the FRONTIER.  For 
cheaper, quicker buffet eats with minimal lines and traffic, try:  
NEVADA LANDING, GOLD COAST or ARIZONA CHARLIES.  Supermarkets can 
be found on Sahara Ave. several miles west of I-15.

----- WISDOM OF JACK D. RIPPER -----

Correction to Issue #2:  We want to apologize to Col. Warren 
"Bud" Bennett for comparing him to Jack D. Ripper of the movie 
"Dr. Strangelove."  Such an insinuation is entirely political and 
should not be regarded as a personal reflection on Col. Bennett.

There was also a question about whether the Desert Rat correctly 
reported Mr. Ripper's rank.  Some readers thought he was "Colonel 
Ripper," not "General" as reported.  To resolve this question and 
relive fond memories, we watched "Dr. Strangelove" again.  The 
man responsible for Armageddon is General Jack D. Ripper, Base 
Commander, 843rd Bomb Wing.  His wisdom....

"Mandrake, do you recall what Clemenseau said about war?  He 
said, 'War is too important to be left to the generals.'  When he 
said that fifty years ago he might have been right, but today war 
is too important too be left to politicians.  They have neither 
the time, the training or the inclination for strategic thought.  
I can no longer sit back and allow Communist infiltration, 
Communist indoctrination, Communist subversion and the 
international Communist conspiracy to sap and impurify all of our 
precious bodily fluids."

----- SUBSCRIPTION AND COPYWRITE INFO -----

(c) Glenn Campbell, 1994.  (psychospy@aol.com)

The entire contents of this on-line newsletter are copyrighted 
and may not be reproduced in any form without permission, EXCEPT 
FOR THE FOLLOWING:  For six months following the date of 
publication, you may photocopy this text or send this document 
electronically to anyone who you think might be interested, 
provided you do it without charge.  You may only copy or send 
this document in unaltered form and in its entirety, not as 
partial excerpts.  After six months, no further reproduction of 
this document is allowed without permission.

This newsletter is published on an irregular basis whenever 
conditions warrant.  Email subscriptions are currently available 
free of charge to any internet user.  To subscribe (or 
unsubscribe) to current and future editions of THE GROOM LAKE 
DESERT RAT, send a message to psychospy@aol.com.  We will 
acknowledge your request within a few days; if you receive no 
reply it may indicate an addressing problem.  In that case, call 
the human at 702-729-2648.  Hard copy subscriptions to this 
newsletter are available for $1.50 per issue, ordered from the 
address below.  (e.g. $15 for the next 10 issues, mailed anywhere 
in the world.)

For a free catalog of documents and products relating to Groom 
Lake and government secrecy, send us your US mail address.  An 
email version of the catalog is also available (no pictures, size 
13K).  Among the documents available is the "Area 51 Viewer's 
Guide," the definitive 110-page visitors and reference guide to 
the border and its lore.  (Available for $15 plus $3.50 postage.)  
Also available is the popular Groom Lake cloth patch.  ($8, plus 
$1 postage if ordered separately.)

The US mail address for psychospy, Glenn Campbell, Secrecy 
Oversight Council, Area 51 Research Center, Groom Lake Desert Rat 
and countless other ephemeral entities is:
     HCR Box 38
     Rachel, NV 89001 USA

Note:  The problem with the randomly inserted linefeeds in DR#1 
and DR#2 appears to have been solved.  Let us know if you would 
like to receive these issues again.

#####

