From: psychospy@aol.com
X-Mailer: America Online Mailer
Sender: "psychospy" <psychospy@aol.com>
Message-Id: <9403212151.tn03890@aol.com>
Date: Mon, 21 Mar 94 21:51:34 EST
Subject: Groom Lake Desert Rat #5
Status: R

THE GROOM LAKE DESERT RAT.   An On-Line Newsletter.
Issue #5.  Mar. 21, 1994.
-----> "The Naked Truth from Open Sources." <-----
AREA 51/NELLIS RANGE/TTR/NTS/S-4?/WEIRD STUFF/DESERT LORE
Written, published, copyrighted and totally disavowed by 
psychospy@aol.com. See bottom for subscription/copyright info.

In this issue...
     SECRET BASE CHEATS LOCAL TAX ROLLS
     SHERIFF'S CONTRACT
     TOXIC WASTE UPDATE
     PATRIOT REVEALED
     INTEL BITTIES

[Note: This file ends with "#####".  Check for truncation.]

----- SECRET BASE CHEATS LOCAL TAX ROLLS -----

A DESERT RAT MUCKRAKING INVESTIGATION

What do Lincoln County residents think about having "America's 
Most Popular Secret Base" within their borders?  Like other rural 
denizens of the Wild West, we are conservative, patriotic folk 
who proudly wave the flag at every opportunity while cursing the 
federal government in any form.  Like citizens anywhere, our 
strongest loyalties tend to run along economic lines.  We love 
the federal government when it gives our people jobs and pays our 
local government lots of money.  We despise it when it takes away 
our money, makes us fill out forms and forces us to obey a lot of 
irritating rules.  We also hate the federal government when it 
does unpleasant things to us, like kill our friends and 
neighbors, which it has done in Lincoln County in the past.  In 
the years of the above-ground atomic testing at the Nevada Test 
Site, local residents were the closest "Downwinders"--the first 
to receive the fallout--and it seems that nearly everyone who was 
living here then has witnessed someone close die a long and 
painful death from some mysterious cancer.  "You are perfectly 
safe here," the government officials said as they fled the area 
themselves.  

But that is water under the bridge now, and what it comes down to 
today is dollars and cents.  We love the feds when they give us 
business and hate them when they kill us or otherwise interfere 
with local commerce.  In any other part of America, it is common 
to find the most vehement supporters of defense spending to be 
clustered around military bases and the factories of government 
contractors.  Local folks know which side of the butter their 
bread is on and usually have no desire to kill a gold laying 
goose.

Such passions are not strong in Lincoln County, however.  The 
Groom Lake base, unacknowledged by the Air Force, also hardly 
exists in the Lincoln County economy.  The bulk of the jobs and 
contracts for the base are sucked up by wealthy Las Vegas, 90 
miles to the south.  Workers from there are whisked to Groom 
aboard a private fleet of 737 aircraft while the few Lincoln 
County workers are condemned to a longer trip in their own cars 
or in a no-frills, military style school bus.  A handful of low-
level jobs and a piddling contribution to taxes are all that this 
dirt-poor county gets for hosting the production facilities and 
hazardous waste dumps of a billion dollar facility.  

>From time to time, Psychospy drops in on the bi-monthly meeting 
of the Lincoln County Commissioners as they try to hunt up the 
funds to repair the sagging school buildings or breath some life 
into the dying economy here.  (They're also scrambling to feed 
the Jail That Ate Lincoln County--See DR#1.--but that's another 
story and the county's own damn fault.)  In the past few months, 
the subject of the Freedom Ridge/White Sides withdrawal has come 
up a few times.  The commissioners are dead opposed to the land 
grab--but only, it seems, as a way to needle the Bureau of Land 
Management.  Given the almost complete invisibility of the Air 
Force in daily county affairs, BLM is perceived as the main Darth 
Vader around here, and the commission has taken the stand that 
the BLM has no right to negotiate the future of public lands.

The Air Force has been mentioned only in passing.  In the course 
of one meeting in which the land grab was discussed, a county 
employee cautioned the commissioners about acting too 
aggressively.  He was concerned that if the Air Force was feeling 
too much pressure in Lincoln County, they might just close up the 
base and combine that operation with the semi-secret Tonopah Test 
Range in the next county over.  If that happened, Lincoln County 
would lose the tax revenue for the base that it is now getting 
from the Air Force.

Wheels began to turn in Psychospy's suspicious little mind.  What 
tax revenue?

After the meeting, we went upstairs in the County Courthouse to 
chat with the tax assessor and the county treasurer.  Nearly all 
county records are open to the public--as they should be in 
democratic government--and we wanted to know what property the 
Air Force was paying taxes on and how the valuation of it was 
determined.  With the assistance of some helpful county workers, 
we delved into the tax records and gave ourselves a crash course 
in property tax assessment--not a sexy subject to us until now.  
Our findings remain tentative, since we are still unfamiliar many 
areas of tax law, but we have the feeling we are on the trail of 
something big.

The state and local government cannot tax the federal government 
and vice versa.  This exemption is guaranteed in the supremacy 
clause of U.S. Constitution.  If the federal government owns the 
Groom Lake base and all the buildings there, then it cannot be 
directly taxed for that property.  However, there are limits to 
this exemption, as described in the Nevada Revised Statutes 
(NRS), section 361.157:

   "When any real estate which for any reason is exempt from 
taxation is leased, loaned or otherwise made available to and 
used by a natural person, association, partnership or corporation 
in connection with a business conducted for profit, it is subject 
to taxation in the same amount and to the same extent as though 
the lessee or user were the owner of the real estate."

For example, if the Lockheed Corporation had an aircraft assembly 
plant at Groom Lake, the building it occupied would be subject to 
property taxes even if it was owned by the U.S. Government.  
According to annotations in the NRS, this provision has held up 
in court, and it is also consistent with common sense:  Although 
the federal government itself may be exempt, it cannot shelter a 
private, profit-making corporation from its tax liability.  
Lockheed cannot be allowed to escape property taxes simply by 
moving its operation onto federal land.

Groom Lake is apparently run by contractors.  Lockheed has 
obviously had a big "black aircraft" assembly and testing 
operation there for years, while many support services, like the 
737 shuttle jets and perimeter security, are operated by EG&G and 
its REECO subsidiary.  At the adjoining Nevada Test Site, which 
was once engaged in a mission that was almost as secret (i.e. 
blowing up the world), the vast majority of workers are employed 
by contractors, not the government.  Since the government doesn't 
build planes or develop weapons technology on its own, we can 
reasonably assume that most of those buildings along the dry lake 
bed are housing the operations of private, profit-making 
contractors.  If so, the assessment of that property ought to 
appear on county records.  According to the NRS, the taxes could 
be paid directly by the contractor or as an equivalent "in-lieu" 
payment by the federal government.

In the treasurer's office, we looked up the latest tax bill for 
the U.S. Air Force.  It is one of the county's few large tax 
assessments and the only entity the Groom base could fall under.  
The bill covers all of the Air Force's installations in Lincoln 
Country, without specifying location.  In the 93-94 tax year, the 
Air Force paid taxes of $65,517 on a property assessment (for 
"Buildings and Improvements" plus "Other Personal Property") of 
$2,517,781.  The fact that the Air Force is paying this bill 
implies that it agrees that certain of the buildings and property 
on its land should be taxed.  Previous years' assessments were 
not much different, and next year's will increase only modestly.

We never went to tax assessor school and have only a vague idea 
of how much industrial property is worth, but it seems to us that 
$2.5 million wouldn't buy a LATRINE at a facility like Groom 
Lake.  (It would be, after all, a CLASSIFIED latrine.)  For 
comparison, a single copy of the B-2 Stealth Bomber is said to 
cost something in the neighborhood of $1 billion.  It is 
reasonable to guess, then, that the base is also worth at least a 
billion.  In that context, $65,517 in taxes is only a trivial 
drip of revenue, a token payment that in no way reflects any real 
assessment.

Could it be that the secret base is cheating on its taxes?

That is one of the advantages of having a secret base.  Since it 
doesn't exist, the local tax assessor can't go there to inspect 
the property; the county has to accept whatever assessment the 
Air Force hands out.  This is like asking a homeowner to assess 
his own property and choose his own tax, without any threat of 
audit.  Naturally, "national security" dictates that the Air 
Force give the smallest possible assessment so as to not tip off 
the "enemy" about the true scale of the operation at Groom.

Now that the base and its facilities are being widely 
publicizing, it is becoming obvious that the Air Force has been 
less than frank in its assessment of the property and has shorted 
the county on property taxes for years.  We don't know what legal 
recourse the county may have, but we believe that a lot of money 
is due.  Instead of $65,517 annually, we suspect that the proper 
contribution should be more like $1 million annually, or about a 
third of the county income.  That doesn't include BACK TAXES and 
INTEREST.  We don't expect the Air Force to voluntarily come 
clean and pay its proper due--That's not the Air Force way.--but 
forcing them to publicly acknowledge the base would certainly 
advance the cause.

----- SHERIFF'S CONTRACT -----

A separate payment to the county from the Air Force supports a 
service contract with the Lincoln County Sheriff's Department.  
At the county courthouse, we looked up the invoice.  The Air 
Force was charged $12,477.62 in the last quarter of 1993, or 
about $50,000 annually.  This compensates the Sheriff's 
Department for the salary of one deputy and the use of a vehicle.  
According to the invoice, the Sheriff's Department is required to 
"routinely patrol the exterior boundary of the Nellis Air Force 
Range" within Lincoln County and "provide an immediate response 
to the Nellis Air Force Range when requested by appropriate 
authority."  The department must also provide "special assistance 
to the applicable on-site security force in case of emergency."

Of course, the "applicable on-site security force" is those cammo 
dudes who don't exist.  This contract provides one of the 
fascinating junctions between the secret world and open society 
that might be exploited for further information.  The Sheriff's 
Department, since it accepts federal funds, is now a government 
contractor, probably subject to an array of federal laws and 
requirements that could make its records more accessible.  At the 
same time, since the Air Force has entered into this open 
contract with a non-secure local agency, it can no longer claim 
that its security operations are secret.  The service contract 
could provide a fruitful entry point for a variety of enforceable 
FOIA requests.

----- TOXIC WASTE UPDATE -----

Yesterday's Las Vegas Review-Journal (Mar. 20) had a 
groundbreaking article on the Groom Lake base and toxic burning 
there.  It triggered in Psychospy almost the same convulsions and 
hideous cackle we suffered when we first saw the Popular Science 
article.  The new article is based on an interview with an 
anonymous source who used to work at the base.  He says that 
hazardous wastes used in the development of stealth aircraft were 
routinely shipped from a Lockheed factory in California for 
illegal disposal at Groom.  While these charges have been made 
before, this article is remarkable for its detail.  

Waste shipments arrived on Mondays and Wednesdays in tractor-
trailer trucks.  None of the parties involved had the proper 
permits and documentation for hazardous waste disposal.  The 
barrels were placed in trenches, doused with jet fuel and burned.  
A widow, Helen Frost, claims that her husband died as a result of 
exposure to the resulting fumes, and a law professor at George 
Washington University, Jonathan Turley, is preparing legal action 
against the Air Force on Mrs. Frost's behalf.  The state 
Environmental Protection Division is also looking into the 
charges.

In addition to confirming the hazardous waste claims, the source 
also revealed many other interesting pieces of information.  
Between 1980 and 1990, the budget for the base was between $1 
billion and $1.5 billion per year.  The article includes a map of 
the core part of the base, with buildings labeled for the 
"Lockheed hangers," "burn pits," "Scoot-N-Hide shed" (for 
concealing aircraft from Soviet satellites), "Red Hat hangers" 
(for captured Soviet aircraft housed at Groom) and "Sam's Place 
bar and recreational complex."  A sidebar describes the bar and 
the exotic tastes that were entertained at this unacknowledged 
"Club Fed."  

   "Some colonels, [the source] said, 'had very extravagant 
tastes,' including one who had grapefruit flown in from Israel at 
$25 a piece and requested deliveries of canned tuna from South 
America that he estimates cost the government $26 per can.

   "In the dining hall, prime rib was offered every Wednesday 
afternoon and New York steaks were often on the lunch menu.  
'They used to serve frog legs, king crab and filet mignon at no 
charge,' he said.

   "'They drank bottled water to the tune of $50,000 a month,' he 
said, comparing the lifestyles of some base inhabitants to high 
rollers in Las Vegas at the government's expense."

To be fair, these may be the exaggerations of a disgruntled 
former employee, and some of his examples may be taken out of 
context.  Because nothing is confirmable, any such claims by an 
anonymous source should be taken with a grain of salt.  Still, 
ENQUIRING MINDS WANT TO KNOW, and where confirmable data is 
lacking, unconfirmed sources will fill the void.  If the AF 
doesn't choose to defend itself, then it has set itself up as the 
fall guy, and no kind of dirt digging is off limits.

We will be sending out a copy of this article with US mail and 
internet subscriptions to the Desert Rat.  You can also receive a 
copy by sending us an SASE.

----- PATRIOT REVEALED -----

In DR #4, we recorded the comments of two hard-line, anti-Soviet 
AF supporters at the Las Vegas hearing.  According to a reader 
(johnam@mirage.ccsn.nevada.edu), the first of these speakers was 
COY PETTYJOHN, a retired Air Force major general and former chief 
of intelligence for the Pacific air forces.  The reader says that 
in 1992 Pettyjohn ran for Congress against Rep. James Bilbray.

In response to Mr. Pettyjohn's charges, BILL SCOTT of Aviation 
Week writes...

   "I had to laugh at the story told by the gentleman who 
recounted the Aviation 'Leak' story at that L.V. hearing.  He had 
a micro-grain of truth in his story, but I've never seen it quite 
that convoluted.  The way the old-timers here tell it, the 
Soviets had a few subscriptions to the magazine throughout the 
cold war.  As soon as it hit the streets each week, Aviation Week 
went into the diplomatic pouch bound for Moscow on an Aeroflot 
flight.  Enroute, the magazine was translated into Russian, then 
duplicated (the Russian version) and distributed by the thousands 
in-country.

   "Far as I know, nothing 'secret' or remotely damaging to U.S. 
interests ever fell into Soviet hands as a result of Av Week 
spilling the beans.  Our approach has always been that, if an 
uncleared reporter can find out what's going on in the 
defense/aerospace business--especially on our measly budget!--
then the KGB and its billions of rubles probably had NO problem 
getting the same stuff and more.

   "Oh, the story ends in a fairly boring manner.  As soon as our 
sales chief heard about the Soviets' scheme, he pitched a fit 
over copyright infringement.  A 'major' international incident 
was narrowly avoided by the Soviets agreeing to pay for about 500 
or so new subscriptions... but they kept on duplicating thousands 
of translations.  Although it's a bit unexciting, there was never 
any super-secret missile designs revealed in the pages of Av Week 
as a result of cagy reporters prowling the halls of the 
Pentagon."

----- INTEL BITTIES -----

THE LITTLE A-LE-INN Restaurant/Bar/Motel/UFO Headquarters in 
Rachel will be holding what Pat Travis calls a "UFO Friendship 
Campout" (downgraded from "UFO Conference") on the weekend of May 
20-22.  This is unlikely to be as memorable as last year's 
"Ultimate UFO Seminar" where Lazar, Knapp and Lear spoke.  These 
three seem unlikely to attend this year, and at present there are 
no confirmed speakers and no agenda.  Many attendees at last 
year's conference felt burned due to its domination by a Bible-
wielding conspiracy buff, Gary Schultz.  Happily, Schultz has not 
been seen in Rachel since, but an unstructured event like this is 
sure to attract other conspiracy wacko types to fill the void.  
Still, if you are in the right frame of mind and don't expect to 
exchange any real information, this event could be a gas.  The 
fee is $50 and includes at least five meals, admission to all 
bull sessions and abduction testimonials, unlimited use of the 
Porta-Potties and the right to pitch your tent near the Inn.  
Psychospy has consented to lead an expedition to Freedom Ridge, 
but otherwise we have no connection with this event.  As a 
courtesy, we have consented to let the Inn use part of our 
mailing list (once only), so if we have your US mail address you 
may be receiving a flyer from the Inn within the next week.  
Otherwise, contact the Inn directly at 702-729-2515 or send an 
SASE to: Little A-Le-Inn, HCR Box 45, Rachel, NV 89001.

ROCKETRY MEET AT DELAMAR LAKE.  According to intel gathered by 
tmahood@netcom.com, fanatical hobbyists from around the Southwest 
will be coming to nearby Delamar Dry Lake for a "high powered 
rocketry" meet this Saturday, March 26.  You may be familiar with 
the chinsy toy rockets that some boys play with.  Well, these are 
BIG rockets for the big boys (i.e. frustrated techno-nerds with 
no life).  The technology achieved by many of these hobbyists 
surpasses that of some Third World countries.  Some models, build 
from surplus military parts, can be more than 8 feet high and are 
almost indistinguishable from military missiles.  Spectacular 
failures are said to be common at these events.  The goal of this 
particular meet is maximum altitude.  The event runs all day, 
starting at about 9:00am until the winds whip up, but the FAA has 
granted the group an UNLIMITED altitude window from 11:00 am to 
2:00 pm for the really big ones.  We wouldn't be surprised if 
rocketry whiz BOB LAZAR turned up as a contender.  The public is 
allowed to watch at a respectable distance.  Delamar Dry Lake is 
about 2 hours north of Las Vegas.  Take I-15 to US-93, then go 
roughly 60 miles to milepost LN 36.1 on US-93, just south of the 
town of Alamo.  Turn right (east) on the maintained dirt road 
across from Buckhorn Ranch Road (okay for any vehicle).  Go about 
13 miles on the maintained road until you reach the lake bed.  
The event organizer is the Tripoli Rocketry Association.  
Contacts are Mark Hendrickson (702-451-3517) and Les Derkowitz 
(702-875-4279).

GREEN FLAG EXERCISES.  Tim Gerlach, editor of the Whiskey Alpha 
Report (a newsletter for aviation watchers at Nellis AFB), 
reports that the current major air exercise on the Nellis Range 
is GREEN FLAG, Mar. 12 thru Apr. 23.  GREEN FLAG is a series of 
war games similar to RED FLAG but with an emphasis on electronic 
warfare.  Observers on the ground can expect to see similar 
activities:  dogfights, bombing runs and lots of flares.  The 
exercise will consist of three two-week rotations, with new crews 
for each period.  The typical pattern with these exercises is 
that the first Saturday of each period is arrival day, when a 
steady stream of aircraft flow into Nellis AFB.  Actual exercises 
usually take place Monday through Friday.  [For information on 
the Whiskey Alpha Report, write to Tim at: 1973 N Nellis Bl #112, 
Las Vegas, NV 89115.]

RACHEL DAY.  The annual town celebration in Rachel will be held 
Sat., April 9.  The parade begins at 11am, followed by games and 
a buffet dinner at the Inn.  Games will include the famous 
Chickenshit Contest.  (A grid of squares is drawn on the floor of 
a chicken cage, and people place bets on where the chicken will 
shit first.)  Everyone's invited!

VIEWERS GUIDE EDITION 2.02 has just been released.  The changes 
from 2.0 and 2.01 are mostly minor or cosmetic.  However, 2.02 
does add a detailed road map of the Tikaboo Valley, including 
locations of road sensors and the proposed withdrawal area.  
There is also some basic information about Tikaboo Peak, the 
viewpoint into Groom Lake that was ignored by the AF in the 
current withdrawal, and on the 4WD road to Freedom Ridge.  If you 
own edition 2.0 or 2.01, you can obtain these pages free by 
sending us a stamped, self-addressed envelope.  If you own any 
edition prior to 2.0, your book is seriously out of date, and we 
recommend that you get the new edition before visiting this area 
again.  The current upgrade price is $7.50 plus $3.50 priority 
mail postage (or $2 for book rate).  Be sure to specify your 
current version number and the copy number in the lower right 
corner of the cover.

----- SUBSCRIPTION AND COPYRIGHT INFO -----

(c) Glenn Campbell, 1994.  (psychospy@aol.com)

This newsletter is copyrighted and may not be reproduced in any 
form without permission, EXCEPT FOR THE FOLLOWING:  For six 
months following the date of publication, you may photocopy the 
text or send or post this document electronically to anyone who 
you think might be interested, provided you do it without charge.  
You may only copy or send this document in unaltered form and in 
its entirety, not as partial excerpts.  After six months, no 
further reproduction of this document is allowed without 
permission.

This newsletter is published on an irregular basis whenever 
conditions warrant.  Email subscriptions are currently available 
free of charge to any internet user.  To subscribe (or 
unsubscribe) to current and future editions of THE GROOM LAKE 
DESERT RAT, send a message to psychospy@aol.com.  We will 
acknowledge your request within a few days; if you receive no 
reply it may indicate an addressing problem.  In that case, call 
the human at 702-729-2648.  Hard copy subscriptions to this 
newsletter are available for $1.50 per issue, ordered from the 
address below.  (e.g. $15 for the next 10 issues, mailed anywhere 
in the world.)

For a free catalog of documents and products relating to Groom 
Lake and government secrecy, send us your US mail address.  An 
email version of the catalog is also available (no pictures, size 
13K).  Among the documents available is the "Area 51 Viewer's 
Guide," the definitive 110-page visitors and reference guide to 
the border and its lore.  (Available for $15 plus $3.50 postage.)  
Also available is the popular Groom Lake cloth patch.  ($8, plus 
$1 total postage if ordered separately.)

The US mail address for psychospy, Glenn Campbell, Secrecy 
Oversight Council, Area 51 Research Center, Groom Lake Desert Rat 
and countless other ephemeral entities is:
     HCR Box 38
     Rachel, NV 89001 USA

#####

