
Hello and happy new year from clickBOOM!

This edition of clickBOOM news is a bit longer, as there are 
quite a few interesting things happening. 

We will cover the following:

QUAKE:
1.  Announcement
2.  Pricing and preordering
3.  Quake TNT pack
4.  An offer you can't refuse
5.  Help us translate Quake into many languages
6.  Quake in Germany



QUAKE:

1.  ANNOUNCEMENT
----------------
On January 5, 1998 PXL computers and clickBOOM revolutionize 
the Amiga games market yet one more time - Quake Amiga is announced. 

Original Quake was written for PC by id software.

"Quake is the biggest, baddest bloodiest and most atmospheric 3D
action game ever conceived" - PC Gamer

"The most important PC game ever" - PC Zone

"Quake looks like no other game and perfectly displays id's trademark
fusion of nightmarish art and advanced technology" - Wired

"The new, radically different graphics engine delivers mesmerizing 3D
effects" - Time


Quake contains the most advanced 3D engine in the world. Moreover,
players can connect to any one of several hundred Internet servers
from around the world and join fast and furious battles against other
users.  Not only does Quake give the unbelievable amount of gameplay
with its built-in options, it also features the most flexible core
ever seen in a video game. This allows Quake users to create Quake
"add-ons" (also known as "packs"). Quake add-ons can range from simple
new levels and weapons to Quake movies and demos, to "total
conversions" that change the way Quake is being played. 

Total conversions allow Quake players to take control of James Bond in
the MGM's official Tomorrow Never Dies; embark on a dangerous snake
expedition in Sony's Anaconda; drive popular race cars in QuakeRally;
control fighter bombers, tanks, helicopters, hovercrafts and other
military vehicles in AirQuake; and much, much more.

All of the above options and more are now available on the Amiga.
Quake is the first game to allow Amiga users to join the Internet
gaming community. Connect to any Quake site and play against any
combination of Amiga, PC or Mac users! Plus, Quake Amiga will use ANY
Quake add-on, from freeware to commercial ones! And for those who like
one-on-one deathmatches, connect to any Amiga, PC or Mac (modem, cable
or network) and gib! 

No sacrifices - your copy of Quake is identical in options and 
expandability to PC or Mac.

Naturally, in order to make it more Amiga-like, Quake also contains
full locale support, Amiga-style menus, AREXX, option to play it in a
window on any public screen, and much more.   The complete list and
explanation of each option is impressive, and can be accessed from
clickBOOM web site ( http://clickboom.com ).

Various tournaments, competitions, and clans will be organized in the
near future for Amiga Quakers by clickBOOM and various Amiga
magazines. ANY Amiga player will be able to join as long as he is a
REGISTERED user of Quake. A registered user is a person who buys Amiga
Quake, fills out the registration card, and mails it back to
clickBOOM.

At the moment Quake has entered its final beta testing stage. 
After it is fully tested by clickBOOM it will be sent to Id software
for their approval, and then to CD duplication and packaging. If all
goes according to plan, Quake should be ready on Feb. 1.

Minimum Amiga required to play Quake is 68020 with FPU, 8Mb of RAM,
CD-ROM and 30Mb hard drive.

Recommended configuration is 68060 , 16Mb RAM , Internet connection.

For more information about Quake please visit http://clickboom.com .


Quake is a trademark of Id software. (C)1996,1997 Id software, inc.
All rights reserved. Amiga conversion (C)1998 PXL computers and
clickBOOM.



2.  PRICING AND PREORDERING
---------------------------
Suggested retail prices for Quake are:
seventy Canadian Dollars ($70CDN)
ninety German Marks (90DEM) 
thirty British Pounds (30GBP)
forty seven American Dollars ($47US)

You can preorder Quake directly from clickBOOM for $60CDN before Feb.
1st.  You will save $10CDN, get an additional free Quake poster, and
ensure delivery to your home.

Ordering is available online or via fax. You can use Visa, 
Mastercard, money order, or bank wire transfer.




3.  QUAKE TNT PACK
------------------
PXL computers and clickBOOM are also working on a brand new 
Amiga-oriented CD called "Quake TNT pack". It is a 600Mb compilation
of the latest Quake related files - total conversions, partial
conversions, movies, demos, levels, and more. This CD is a must for
every serious Quake player.

Registered Quake users will receive 50% off the regular price.

Quake TNT pack should be available in February. At the moment exact
contents are not yet finalized, so visit http://clickboom.com for more
info soon. 




4.  AN OFFER YOU CAN'T REFUSE
-----------------------------
Piracy on the Amiga is like a cancer. It's a serious issue 
threatening to kill the gaming industry. It is obviously impossible to
track down on each and every instance of piracy, so PXL / clickBOOM
opted for another option.  We are giving the following incentive to
users to buy Quake instead of pirating it.

* Enter Quake tournaments, clans and competitions. These will be
   organized  by clickBOOM and various Amiga magazines and companies
   around the globe.  If you are not a registered user you will NOT be
   able to participate.
* Play Quake over Internet on Amiga servers. If you are not a 
   registered user you will NOT be allowed to join Amiga-oriented
   servers. 
* Each copy of Quake will have a unique serial number, and only by
   presenting this number can you receive customer support from 
   clickBOOM. 
* Do you want to see more conversions on the Amiga? Every 
   registration card   found in Quake and Myst packaging contains the
   following question:  "Name 1 game from another platform you think
   we should convert to the Amiga".  Possibility of doing another hit
   conversion and decision on which one it   will be, will largely be
   influenced by the answers we receive from   these cards. 
* Around 50% discount on Quake TNT pack (exact prices yet to be
   determined). 
* Direct, free access to various Quake upgrades which we have planned 
   for the near future.
* Priority for various promotions (such as translation, see below)
   and discounts.

Registering your copy of Quake is a simple process. Once you buy the
game fill out the registration card found inside its packaging, and
mail it back to PXL / clickBOOM.




5. HELP US TRANSLATE QUAKE INTO MANY LANGUAGES
----------------------------------------------
Quake Amiga has full locale support, so help us translate it into as
many languages as possible, and have your name in Quake credits! All
languages (except for English, built in already) are welcome!

On Jan. 17 we will draw three lucky Amiga users per language.
As always registered users (in this case users who preordered Quake
from clickBOOM) will have priority.  Only if there is not enough
registered users for a particular language a lucky non-Quake owner
will be added to the list.




6. QUAKE IN GERMANY
-------------------
Due to its extremely violent contents PC and Mac Quake are "indexed"
in Germany, and so will be the Amiga version. This means that Quake
should not be publicly displayed and promoted, nor should it be sold
to persons under the age of 18. 

This will also make it difficult for mail order companies to sell it.
At the moment we do not have a solution to this problem other than
ordering online from PXL / clickBOOM.


Best regards,
clickBOOM



