From: "Vanilla Gorilla" <vgor@monkeyshines.com>
Newsgroups: comp.sys.amiga.misc
Subject: Re: Playable TV???
Date: 15 Nov 1997 14:20:07 -0600
Organization: TEAM AMIGA - CONVERGENCE INTERNATIONAL
Message-ID: <64l0bh$e0t$1@newserve.gulftel.com>
References: groups/comp.sys.amiga.misc/95508.head <346D76BE.5D2B9B01@hotmail.com>
NNTP-Posting-Host: 045.ppp5.gulftel.com
X-Newsreader: FFNews 1.63 (Amiga;32bit) *Unregistered*
Lines: 45
Path: 195.95.96.10!news.unisource.be!News.Amsterdam.UnisourceCS!amsterdam.news.unisource.nl!gate.news.unisource.nl!bullseye.news.demon.net!demon!dispose.news.demon.net!demon!nntp.news.xara.net!xara.net!newsfeed.ecrc.net!cpk-news-hub1.bbnplanet.com!news.bbnplanet.com!feed1.news.erols.com!recycled.news.erols.com!news-out.communique.net!communique!gulftel!not-for-mail


On 15 Nov 1997 21:17:35 Gregory Harris wrote about "Playable TV???":

> 
> Could someone please tell me what a Playable TV is...
> 
> Thanks in Advance
> Greg
> 
A revolutionary new product with unlimited potential and use!
Developed by Marmalade and based on the A4000T with toaster/
flyer setups and custom software.

The product has been demonstrated to NASA and they have
ordered several! The product has the potential to put the
Amiga back into the limelight as the toaster did back in the
1980's!

The product can be used by museums, zoos, malls, theaters,
national parks, banks, visitor  centers, night clubs etc.
It offers a variety of presentation options at an affordable
price to a wide range of industries, according to the 
extensive article in the last issue of The Amiga Informer!

It is suited for compaines  doing training, presentation, or who
need interactive kiosks. It can show full motion video and
many other amazing things! It is suited for simulations
and anything along these lines. The Amiga is the best choice
for this type of product...as it does do these type of things
much better than any other platform...this according to the
developers, and there was a time when NewTek had not
signed an agreement with them to provide them with the
Toaster/Flyer setups and Marmalade stated that if they 
could not get the agreement signed by NewTek they would
have to start development of the Playable TV on the PC which
is not what they wanted to do. However, I think that NewTek
and Marmalade have reached an agreement, or at least that
is the word from NewTek.

Anyway..their website is http://www.playabletv.com...

It is an exciting and revolutionary product developed on and
for the Amiga and its superb video capabilities!


