From: gpearce@freenet.columbus.oh.us (Greg Pearce)
Newsgroups: comp.sys.amiga.misc
Subject: Re: Midwest Amiga Expo News?
Date: 2 Nov 1997 09:42:54 -0500
Organization: The Greater Columbus FreeNet
Lines: 49
Message-ID: <63i3he$5vf@login.freenet.columbus.oh.us>
References: <345b8de9.0@news.westel.com>
NNTP-Posting-Host: login.freenet.columbus.oh.us
X-Newsreader: TIN [version 1.2 PL2]
Path: 195.95.96.10!news.unisource.be!News.Amsterdam.UnisourceCS!ubnnews.unisource.ch!news-zh.switch.ch!news-ge.switch.ch!news-fra1.dfn.de!news-was.dfn.de!news-spur1.maxwell.syr.edu!news.maxwell.syr.edu!news.cis.ohio-state.edu!magnus.acs.ohio-state.edu!freenet.columbus.oh.us!not-for-mail

Brian Toogood (briant@vicnet.com) wrote:
: Hi folks!  As I understand it, the Midwest Amiga Expo is on this weekend.  I
: was hoping someone might have some news from the show.  Of particular
: interest to me is the keynote speech from Amiga International.  Does anyone
: have access to news from this show??  Thanks!!

I was at the show yesterday.  Though I spent a lot of time taking tickets and
generally gophering, I did manage to catch part of Petro's speech.  While
he didn't have any major revelations, he did say that there will be a
major announcement concerning the new architecture at the Cologne show in
2 weeks.  He said Amiga, Inc R&D has been working on it.  He also said
that NTSC Magic pack 1200's will be shipped in December.  He also said
that they are cutting prices substantially to help build the user base. 
Quikpak has signed a licensing agreement.  Petro said that worldwide Amiga
sales are increasing.

He talked about Micronix and Phase 5 and the work they have been doing. 
He talked about a new German company called DCE that is developing and
starting to manufacture a new product that sounded like a 1200 with CPU's
ranging from a 40mhz 030 to a 50mhz 060.

I didn't catch all the speech and I'm sure I missed quite a few things
that were newsworthy, but someone will be updating and correcting this,
I'm sure.

There were a definitely a lot more people at the show this year.  I
overheard a number of people saying that this show was better than last
year.  Every vendor table was filled, and a number of user groups were
there.  Just about everyone that was there had a bag full of
goodies--sales at Wonder Computers and Compuquick looked brisk.  I picked
up Dopus Magellan myself.

Here is a partial list of those attending-- Wonder Computers, Compuquick,
Siamese Systems, Nova Design, Asimware, Gamasoft, Amazing Computing (Don
Hicks), Amiga Informer, Iam, Nether Realm software, Jason Compton, Dale
Larson, someone from Amiga, Inc. whose name I can't remember, Eric
Schwartz and his Dad, people from CUCUG and Gateway Amiga Club, a whole
list of user groups and a bunch of others and a lot of happy Amiga users.

This is a very partial and limited report with a lot of stuff left out.  I
won't be able to attend Sunday as I am moving and my wife has threatened
to, shall we say, remove my ability to procreate.

I had a lot of fun.


-- 
Pegasone

