From: "Marcel Devoe" <mdevoe@shore.net>
Newsgroups: comp.sys.amiga.misc
Subject: Microsoft Buys The U.S.A.
Date: 28 Oct 1997 14:17:11 GMT
Organization: Shore.Net; a service of Eco Software, Inc. (info@shore.net)
Lines: 62
Sender: Marcel Devoe <mdevoe@shell2.shore.net>
Message-ID: <634s57$1br@fridge.shore.net>
NNTP-Posting-Host: shell2.shore.net
X-Newsreader: TIN [UNIX 1.3 unoff BETA 971018; sun4u SunOS 5.5.1]
Path: 195.95.96.10!news.unisource.be!News.Amsterdam.UnisourceCS!amsterdam.news.unisource.nl!gate.news.unisource.nl!newsgate.unisource.nl!surfnet.nl!news.belnet.be!krypton.inbe.net!INbe.net!blue.news.pipex.net!pipex!stns.news.pipex.net!hose.news.pipex.net!pipex!weld.news.pipex.net!pipex!bowl.news.pipex.net!pipex!warm.news.pipex.net!pipex!join.news.pipex.net!pipex!nntprelay.mathworks.com!cam-news-hub1.bbnplanet.com!cam-news-feed2.bbnplanet.com!news.bbnplanet.com!shore!not-for-mail



IV.     Microsoft Buys the USA

REDMOND, Wash. - Oct. 21, 1997 -- In direct response to accusations made
by the Department of Justice, the Microsoft Corp. announced today that
it will  be acquiring the federal government of the United States of
America for  an undisclosed sum.  "It's actually a logical extension of
our planned growth", said Microsoft chairman Bill Gates, "It really is
going to be a positive arrangement for everyone".

Microsoft representatives held a briefing in the oval office of the
White House with U.S. President Bill Clinton, and assured members of the
press that changes will be "minimal".  The United States will be managed
as a wholly owned division of Microsoft.  An initial public offering is
planned for July of next year, and the federal government is expected to
be  profitable by "Q4 1999 at latest", according to Microsoft president
Steve  Ballmer.

In a related announcement, Bill Clinton stated that he had "willingly
and enthusiastically" accepted a position as a vice president with
Microsoft, and will continue to manage the United States
government, reporting directly to Bill Gates.  Then asked how it felt to
give up the mantle of executive authority to Gates, Clinton smiled and
referred to it as "a relief".  He went on to say that Gates has a
"proven track record", and that U.S. citizens should offer Gates their
"full support and confidence". Clinton will reportedly be earning
several times the $200,000 annually he has earned as U.S. president, in
his new role at Microsoft.

Gates dismissed a suggestion that the U.S. Capitol be moved to 
Redmond as "silly", though did say that he would make executive
decisions for the U.S. government from his existing office at Microsoft
headquarters.  Gates went on to say that the House and Senate would "of
course" be abolished. "Microsoft isn't a democracy", he observed, "and
look how well we're doing".

When asked if the rumored attendant acquisition of Canada was
proceeding, Gates said, "We don't deny that discussions are taking
place".  Microsoft representatives closed the conference by stating that
United States citizens will be able to expect lower taxes, increases in
government services and discounts on all Microsoft products.

About Microsoft Founded in 1975, Microsoft (NASDAQ "MSFT") is the
worldwide leader in software for personal computers, and democratic
government.  The company offers a wide range of products and services
for public, business and personal use, each designed with the mission of
making it easier and more enjoyable for people to take advantage of the
full power of personal computing and free society every day.

About the United States Founded in 1789, the United States of America is
the most successful nation in the history of the world, and has been a
beacon of democracy and opportunity for over 200 years. Headquartered in
Washington, D.C., the United States is a wholly owned subsidiary of
Microsoft Corporation.



-- 
Marcel DeVoe
A4000/060/50 CSMKII CV64 44megs 
Emplant/FUSION CDROM M1764 17" monitor
