From: "Wolf Dietrich" <wd@gf.phase5.de>
Newsgroups: comp.sys.amiga.misc
Subject: Re: WarpOS released !!!
Date: Sun, 28 Sep 1997 16:04:15 +0200
Organization: phase 5 digital products
Lines: 167
Message-ID: <342E63DF.6ABE2601@gf.phase5.de>
References: <02000206229292420427@BIRDLAND.es.bawue.de>
NNTP-Posting-Host: ufoo.phase5.de
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
X-Mailer: Mozilla 3.0Gold (X11; I; Linux 2.0.0 i586)
Path: 195.95.96.10!news.unisource.be!planetinternet.be!newsgate.unisource.nl!News.Amsterdam.UnisourceCS!cosy.sbg.ac.at!newsfeed.Austria.EU.net!newscore.univie.ac.at!newsfeed.nacamar.de!news.nacamar.de!not-for-mail

Steffen Haeuser wrote:
> 
> Hi!
> 
> Well, some of you probably already have heard that the ppc.library of Phase 5
> of the PowerUP Boards causes problems, when you switch often between 68k and
> PPC CPU, causes great slowdowns. Especially for games and emulators this is
> quite problematic. But it is a software problem, not a hardware problem.
> 
> The Firm Haage&Partner, known for their StormC compiler, have now done
> something about it. They developped an OS expansion called "WarpOS - The
> WarpSpeed Solution", which replaces the functionality of ppc.library and
> partially also that of exec.library. WarpOS is mainly coded in PPC Assembler,
> and it is VERY fast.
> 
> Some of the features WarpOS provides:
> 
> - PPC Native Multitasking functions
> - Memory Protection
> - Fast 68k/PPC Communication and Context-Switching
> - PPC Native Signalling and Messaging
> - Special Support for MMU and Caches (You can manipulate them with some
>   nice library functions)
> - Tutorial about PPC Game Coding
> - Demos: Voxelgraphics demo and fractal program and some more stuff
> - Extra stuff: The first PPC c2p algorithm and some PPC Memory-Copy Functions
> - Benchmark program
> - Most functions will be automatically handled by StormC
> - ...
> 
> The only disadvantage of WarpOS is, that when you start a WarpOS program,
> ppc.library using programs won't run any longer (until the next reset). But
> well, i expect most developpers will use WarpOS anyways. Especially because it
> is much faster. Haage&Partner said, especially about game coding "game coding
> under PowerUP simply needs WarpOS, the ppc.library just causes too many delays
> when doing a context-switch".
> 
> Well, WarpOS seems to be an easy to use and efficient solution. It is Freeware
> and will probably soon show up on the Unofficial PowerUP Site at
> http://hem.passagen.se/studiox/powerup/index.html. It also is already found at
> my BBS telnet 194.123.83.1, login WarpUP, Password WarpUP.
> 
> I expect it to showup on Aminet and on http://www.haage-partner.com soon, too,
> of course...
> 
> In the docs there is written that the Voxelgraphics-Demo runs on the PPC603e
> about 3 times faster than on a 50 MHz 060 CPU !!! And on the PPC604e it will
> run even faster.
> 
> Steffen Haeuser


This is a short preliminary statement, which will be extended during the
next week and can then be found on our web site http://www.phase5.de.

phase 5 digital products is shipping the PowerUp boards as a complete
solution, consisting of the powerful dual-processor hardware and the
comprehensive PPC library and other stuff. The PPC library is a complete
PPC native multitasking and multiprocessing kernel. It features
everything that is necessary for all kind of software developments, even
for adoption of different or future OS versions. The information about
disadvantages and slow communication between the two CPUs is nonsense,
as our system software provides a comprehensive message and signalling
system, which even provides protectable memory areas for each task,
making PowerUp-compliant software ready for future memory-protected OS
updates or versions.

AS A MATTER OF FACT, THE FUNCTIONALITY WHICH HAAGE&PARTNER OUTLINES AND
PROMOTES IS NOTHING SPECIAL, BUT A STANDARD FUNCTIONALITY PROVIDED BY
THE PHASE 5 POWERUP SYSTEM SOFTWARE. We simply did not make so much
noise about it. It is also nonsense that the WarpUp software by
Haage&Partner is faster then the PowerUp system software from phase 5
digital products; this may only be true when StormC is used for the
compilation a PowerUp application.

The WarpUp from Haage&Partner is a solution which is not compatible to
the phase 5 solution. As it does not use the HAL that is provided by
phase 5 digital products, but hacks the hardware by using an incomplete
knowledge of the hardware functionality - which has been aquired by
reengineering the phase 5 digital products software - it is most likely
that it will not work with future revision changes or different product
releases of the PowerUp series.

Furthermore, phase 5 digital products will not tolerate that an
incompatible software takes over the control of the PowerUp hardware and
prevents the user from running software that has been developed for the
PowerUp boards by phase 5 digital products as well as many other
vendors. All software which is supplied by phase 5, and in which we have
invested lots of work and financial efforts to make the PowerUp a useful
product, would be disabled once the Haage&Partner software is installed
in the system. That includes for example the fast CyberGL native library
as well as the MPEG video and audio decoding integrated into CGX V3.
Consequently, third party products using such advanced functionality
would not run. USAGE OF THE THE HAAGE&PARTNER SOLUTION WOULD RESULT IN A
COMPLETE INCOMPATIBILITY MESS. In the interest of our customers, who buy
our products with high expectations, and all our developers who expect a
completely compatible product line, we will take care that the phase 5
system software can not be disabled.

Haage&Partner has - from the beginning - rejected to use the ELF format
which phase 5 has introduced on the PowerUp boards. The reason to choose
this widely accepted format was to open the Amiga/PowerUp development to
industry software standards. As an example, the ELF format allows
professional development for PowerUp even on other platforms (such as
Motorola PPC systems, IBM AIX systems, even on Sun or under WindowsNT),
where high performance PPC Cross compilers are available, which
integrate far superior experience and performance; phase 5 is currently
testing such compilers which may offer the chance to accelerate software
such as the CyberGL native library and the PPC MPEG library even
further. Additonally, soon an update for SAS/C on the Amiga can be
expected, which supports PowerUp and the ELF format.

Haage&Partner, instead, wants to establish their own "extended
Hunk-format", which may is derived from the Amiga Hunk format, but still
a new and proprietary solution. It is a concept that forces developers
to use the only solution supporting this format - the Storm C compiler
by Haage&Partner. Haage&Partner declares it's product being open and
Amiga-compliant - in fact, it is only open to the Haage&Partner standard
and compliant to their own software solutions.

At this point, it is important to mention that the software concepts of
phase 5 digital products have all the time been focused on developments
that open doors and smooth upgrade paths to future and completely
revised OS versions, which incorporate functionalities such as memory
protection and multi-processing (which is not supported by the
Haage&Partner concept, BTW). This has e.g. also been proposed to Amiga
International/Gateway2000 in May this year, together with our offer for
extensive technological cooperation. To reach such a goal, we feel it is
mandatory to set today guidelines for programming that make current
Amiga/PowerUp developments more independent from the current OS revision
by clear structured and object-oriented programming, instead of using
the StormC concept of simply recompiling older sources (this issue will
be adressed in detail later). 

As the solution from Haage&Partner is not compatible and can - because
of it's proprietary software concept - not fullfill demands of
professional developers, it is very unlikely that developers will choose
it. phase 5 digital products highly recommends not to use this
incompatible system, as well as the Storm C compiler which - because of
the concept - is wasting most of the performance that the PowerUp boards
can deliver (this issue will also be adressed in detail later).

phase 5 digital products has supported Haage&partner with free developer
systems, as well as all necessary information to develop compatible
software and tools, thus enabling Haage&Partner to become a leading
software vendor. We also held many meetings explaining our strategy and
goals to make the PowerUp a useful platform not only for a new
generation of high-performance applications, but also for the
development towards a new OS or OS version that fullfills the demands of
the next century. To our surprise and disappointment Haage&Partner has
mainly used their status to create a replacement for the PowerUp system
software which is intended to set a standard controlled by
Haage&Partner, and they even attempt to trash the complete and
comprehensive software development in which we have spend many efforts.
At the same time, they have yet not been able to present a stable
running PowerPC application which the Amiga/PowerUp user would have an
advantage from. We highly disregard this contraproductive and
confrontational behaviour, and will completely drop any support for
Haage&Partner as a PowerUp developer as well as for any of their
products.


------------------------------------------------------------
  Wolf Dietrich, General Manager  phase 5 digital products  
 Return mail address: wd@gf.phase5.de  http://www.phase5.de
------------------------------------------------------------

