From: dhaynie@jersey.net (Dave Haynie)
Newsgroups: comp.sys.amiga.misc
Subject: Re: Open Letter to Dave Haynie and Dr. Pete
Date: Fri, 26 Sep 1997 05:14:36 GMT
Organization: PIOS Computer
Lines: 230
Message-ID: <342b34c7.166624833@news.jersey.net>
References: <damocles.a7uu@nostromo.gate.net> <607suv$qje$1@coranto.ucs.mun.ca>
NNTP-Posting-Host: swip130.jersey.net
X-Newsreader: Forte Free Agent 1.1/32.230
Path: 195.95.96.10!news.unisource.be!planetinternet.be!newsgate.unisource.nl!surfnet.nl!news.cs.utwente.nl!opus.ies-energy.com!news.webspan.net!feed1.news.erols.com!howland.erols.net!cpk-news-hub1.bbnplanet.com!su-news-feed1.bbnplanet.com!news.bbnplanet.com!newsgate.tandem.com!uunet!in3.uu.net!news.jersey.net!not-for-mail

On 23 Sep 1997 08:00:31 GMT, gnoel@morgan.ucs.mun.ca (George Noel)
wrote:

>In article <damocles.a7uu@nostromo.gate.net>,
>Randy Vice <damocles@nostromo.gate.net> wrote:

>>The A\Box retains some of those elements but
>>g> not all either so it is more closer to the Amiga then the PIOS one. 

>>Bull.

>Nope.. I just have to name one.. Caipirinha gives the A\Box more Amiga
>like qualities then the PIOS One. 

Bullshit. The Amiga tradition was for a state of the art graphic chip,
which things began, but there's no qualification that Amiga, Inc. has
to make them. If I put something like a RIVA 128 chip in a PIOS One, I
claim to have more modern "Amiganess", and as well better performance,
than anything Phase V's working on. This also maintains the separation
of Fast and Chip RAM, a critical part of the Amiga architecture. And
of course, it fully supports NTSC/PAL modes with overscan, adding
video color modes, flicker filtering, and tons of 3D support that
would certainly be of interest to the Amiga's traditional professional
markets. That's just one possible system configuration. 

> And that's just one feature which also happens to be a Custom Chip.

Virtually every chip you use in a computer these days is a custom
chip; the days of building a system from TTL and PALs are long gone.
Each major subsystem in the PIOS One, for example, is supported by a
custom chip, they're just vertically integrated (eg, modular), rather
than horizontally integrated (eg, interdependent). Vertical
integration is always better, we knew this at Commodore. But it's also
way more difficult, because you have to establish bus standards, you
have to have access to larger chips, big enough to hold entire
subsystems. News flash -- big chips are cheap today! No one's limited
to 84-pin packages anymore!

>>  A\vaporBox won't run Amiga OS on it native either, if it sees the light
>>of day,
>
>If PhaseV want a license then AI will be there with it.

They have already said they're interested in supporting their own
UNIX, and have not said anything about AmigaOS. PIOS has specifically
stated our interest in a RISC-based AmigaOS, and it's very likely
we'll do things with the 68K AmigaOS as well -- just what, I can't go
into right now, but it has and continues to be a topic of study. 

>> unless AI starts dealing with porting licensing which it isn't doing
>>right now.
>
>But I can't see why it wouldn't once they have a PPC AmigaOS with
>hopefully a HAL. They could license P5 the OS and P5 offer their own HAL.

Assuming P5 is interested. It's odd that you're promoting HALs here,
where in the very last George message I ran you were clearly blasting
CHRP for having a board-level HAL. But you're ok with that?

>>g> A lot of people, me included and AI. I do not see PIOS as being an Amiga
>>g> licensee and/or developer.

And now you both presume to know the mind of AI (which, of course, is
the marketing branch, not part of the engineering group being formed
in South Dakota) AND all the details of agreements PIOS may have or
may still be entering into? F'in amazing, the powers you have just
have no bounds, do they?

>No, read the newsgroups and we are looking at things realistically when it
>comes to PIOS.

Quite frankly, you wouldn't recognize reality if it came along and
kicked you in the butt. And I mean that with all due respect,
naturally. 

>PhaseV are not here directly in THESE newsgroups anyways trying to win
>support but I guess they are on their web-pages.

Uh, George -- Dr. Peter and I are here because we have always been
here. I have been in the Amiga newgroups since the first day they were
formed, and I'll be here until the last message is posted. If anyone's
an interloper, it's a relative newbie like you. 

I post on Amiga related issues that interest me. Obviously, when you
discuss my new computer, I respond. You and a few other nut bags out
there are responsible for 80% of the discussions about PIOS in these
groups. I haven't personally started a thread in years. Others post on
PIOS because they see us as a topic of interest to the Amiga
community. Which is certainly fine with me, but I'm not out recruiting
people. I have more respect than that for most of the folks who
participate in these groups -- they are perfectly capable of making up
their minds about any new technology. The might want me to explain
some of the details of something I have created, which I'm always
happy to, old or new. I don't belive they need you protecting them
from something you clearly don't even understand yourself. 

>>  Then again George, who pushed for the creation of ICOA?  

>Yeah, some of the same people who had it in against PhaseV. No wonder they
>weren't interested in taking part.

George, you are once again talking out of your ass here. The ICOA was
created specifically to include the whole Amiga industry, Phase V
included. They weren't interested for whatever reasons they have, but
they certainly were invited to the party. While I had quite a bit to
do with the formative stages of the ICOA (I wrote the original
"Industry Council and Open Amiga" paper that at least stated the
initiative), I purposely stepped back to let others direct the actual
work, specifically so it could be clearly viewed as a non-biased
group. This is no doubt why good old Petro himself was quoting from my
book a week after Gateway received the first ICOA documents. 

And incidently, I don't "have it in" for Phase V, and I doubt anyone
else around here does either. I certainly do disagree with their
technical approach, but I have always wished them success at what
they're attempting. One founding principle of the whole Open Amiga
initiative is that competition and variety as GOOD for an OS platform,
just as they're good for any species. Without that, you get the kind
of weakness the Amiga had after Commodore (eg, nothing's in
production, the technology stagnates, etc) and what's happening now at
Apple (eg, we can't compete head-to-head with modern technology from
others, so we'll try to kill it). 

Please, just once, could you really understand something before
yammering on about it. For me? Pretty please with Guinness on top? 

>PhaseV is directly supporting the Amiga market NOW. That's the main point.

Phase V has been in the Amiga and Mac business for quite some time.
PIOS is a startup company. You can't really expect PIOS to spend what
money we have on yesterday's technology. That could potentially serve
us in the short term, but it doesn't help the Amiga survive, and it
doesn't benefit the user. Moving the AmigaOS, one way or another, to
faster and cheaper modern technology at least offers the chance of
doing both. 

>What happened after Commodore went under is all moot. They might have been
>working on an "A5000" but any plans for an A6000 is totally up in the air
>and the Janitor from Commodore could have said his plans were what the
>A6000 would have been and both would be right as they were flushed
>directly down the toilet.

As you have been told before, the "Acutiator" architecture was
something that was to stand as the basis for systems for the next five
to ten years. That wouldn't just be A6000, but A10,000. Of course, the
A10,000 might not have had a single piece in common with the A5000,
but the architecture is the important part here. 

>I still believe Commodore would have never embraced CHRP.

Then you're a fool. It's virtually certain Commodore would have gone
to PowerPC; the MC88110 was the leading RISC contender at the time,
and the PPC replaced it. We were moving toward a HAL in the Acutiator
architecture (a small boot-time ROM, with the OS in Fast RAM, not just
because it's easier to fix the OS, but because RAM was getting so much
faster than ROM). And we were supporting standards. There definitely
would have been a CHRP version of the AmigaOS HAL, and we would have
supported CHRP, at least in time. There is no downside of supporting
CHRP for a hardware vendor -- you can run other OSs. Rather than
hiring ten guys for Amiga UNIX, you just use AIX or Linux, and let
those ten engineering positions be applied to AmigaOS. AmigaOS, on the
other hand, wins every time it claims another desktop. If it runs on
5x as many machines because Commodore supports CHRP, that's 5x as many
potential desktops. Unless you think there's something wrong with
AmigaOS, and people would drop in it favor of AIX or MacOS or
something, then there's no downside for a software vendor to support
the standard hardware. As usual, you just don't get it.

And of course, since I worked at AT, I can say with absolute certainty
that PowerPC, an Amiga HAL, and CHRP were all in the cards. We would
not have had CHRP on the $500 machine, it just cost too much. But
that's the point of the Amiga HAL -- it just wouldn't matter. AmigaOS
would reach a larger market on CHRP hardware, and since the HAL
specifications would be published, others could write them for
PowerMacs, A/Boxen, PReP machines, PowerUps, or anything AT wasn't
interested in supporting themselves. We spoke on much of this as the
mini-DevCon at CeBIT '96. Too bad AT went away...

>And if that was the route Commodore was heading, I wouldn't have owned a
>future Amiga anyways, as long as they ported the OS to a different
>platform. I definately would have been gone had they used Windows NT as
>the main OS which they had planned for.

Again, that's total bullshit. Some marketing manager, who shall remain
nameless, made that up. Out of thin air. And a bunch of other things,
too. We NEVER intended to use NT for anything. The only discussion of
it in Engineering was simply that if NT, UNIX, or other OSs were
supported on our RISC-of-choice, we would try to see a HAL or whatever
was written to enable them. 

>>Then neither should P5 since they not only develope Mac stuff, but SELL IT AS
>>WELL.

>So what? They sell more Amiga stuff and make more money off Amiga stuff.

No, they sell much more Mac stuff, at least according to Motorola, who
was showing off the Mac PPC cards at CeBIT last March. While their
graphics cards are overpriced in the Amiga market, apparently the PPC
cards are a fairly good deal in the Mac market, and they sell a ton of
them. That's apparently what pays for A/Box development. No one's
selling a great deal of Amiga hardware these days. 

Don't blame Phase V for trying to stay alive. They didn't damage the
Amiga market, Mehdi Ali did, Bill Sydnes did, ESCOM's failure did.

>>Or using your (il)logic, since we aren't hearing word one about the
>>A\vaporBox, does this mean the magazines have found out it doesn't really have
>>too much in common with the Amiga as well? Hmmmmmmm?

>They have both been treated about the same for about the same reasons,
>though in my opinion, the A\Box got more attention. The PIOS One was never
>on the front cover of any Amiga publication I know about. 

It was on the March '97 cover of "Amiga Magazine" (Italy). A real
case, too, not a drawing. I know "Amiga News & Video Numerique"
(missing my e-agues there, damn American keyboards) covers PIOS
regularly, but I don't recall if we made the cover yet, though they
did cover Andy Finkel, John Smith and I in the Avril '97 issue, along
with photos and a nice writeup, including my graphics, on page 3 & 4.
Oh yeah, here it is, Fevrier, er, February. The case is a generic ATX
case, not our real case. 

I'm sure there are others, I don't get that many European magazines.
All of these are larger than Amazing Computing, and of course, they
all covered CeBIT. What I'm really waiting for is the magazine with
the stones to do a cover shot of the Unplanned Swampland Band...


Dave Haynie      Vice President, Technology    PIOS Computer
haynie@pios.de     "...no RISC, no fun"
