From: "Stephan Joerrens" <joerren@uni-muenster.de>
Newsgroups: z-netz.rechner.amiga.software,de.comp.sys.amiga.misc
Subject: Re: WarpOS
Date: Wed, 1 Oct 1997 10:56:13 +0200
Organization: Westfaelische Wilhelms-Universitaet Muenster, Germany
Lines: 143
Sender: "Stephan Joerrens" <joerren@uni-muenster.de>
Message-ID: <Pine.A41.3.96.971001105150.92446A-100000@asterix.uni-muenster.de>
References: <zp5a98aGkQmPZ5b@orbital.jamiga.insider.org>
NNTP-Posting-Host: asterix.uni-muenster.de
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: TEXT/PLAIN; charset=US-ASCII
In-Reply-To: <zp5a98aGkQmPZ5b@orbital.jamiga.insider.org>
Path: 195.95.96.10!news.unisource.be!News.Amsterdam.UnisourceCS!cosy.sbg.ac.at!newsfeed.Austria.EU.net!newscore.univie.ac.at!news-ge.switch.ch!news-fra1.dfn.de!news-koe1.dfn.de!uni-muenster.de!asterix.uni-muenster.de!joerren
Xref: 195.95.96.10 z-netz.rechner.amiga.software:482 de.comp.sys.amiga.misc:52189

On Mon, 30 Sep 1997, Michael Schulz wrote:

> Date: Mon, 30 Sep 97 19:21:15 GMT
> From: Michael Schulz <M.SCHULZ@JAMIGA.INSIDER.ORG>
> Newsgroups: z-netz.rechner.amiga.software, de.comp.sys.amiga.misc
> Subject: WarpOS

Nun wenn mann die Stellungnahme von Phase5 zu WarpOS liest, dann wird einem 
aber ganz anders....

   PowerUP
   Compatibility warning: Hacker Kernel
   
   This is a short preliminary statement, which will be extended during
   the next week.
   
   phase 5 digital products is shipping the PowerUp boards as a complete
   solution, consisting of the powerful dual-processor hardware and the
   comprehensive PPC library and other stuff. The PPC library is a
   complete PPC native multitasking and multiprocessing kernel. It
   features everything that is necessary for all kind of software
   developments, even for adoption of different or future OS versions.
   The information about disadvantages and slow communication between the
   two CPUs is nonsense, as our system software provides a comprehensive
   message and signalling system, which even provides protectable memory
   areas for each task, making PowerUp-compliant software ready for
   future memory-protected OS updates or versions.
   
   Now, Haage&Partner, a german software developer who had been supported
   by phase 5 digital products as a PowerUp developer, have released a
   product called WarpUp, which is an incompatible replacement of the
   PowerUp system software from phase 5 digital products. This software
   is announced with a long list of features and pretended advantages
   over the PowerUp System Software, thus giving the impression of more
   comprehensive functionality and better performance, what can not be
   prooven by facts and it based on assumptions by Haage&Partner.
   
   AS A MATTER OF FACT, THE FUNCTIONALITY WHICH HAAGE&PARTNER OUTLINES
   AND PROMOTES IS NOTHING SPECIAL, BUT A STANDARD FUNCTIONALITY PROVIDED
   BY THE PHASE 5 POWERUP SYSTEM SOFTWARE. We simply did not make so much
   noise about it. It is also nonsense that the WarpUp software by
   Haage&Partner is faster then the PowerUp system software from phase 5
   digital products; this may only be true when StormC is used for the
   compilation a PowerUp application.
   
   The WarpUp from Haage&Partner is a solution which is not compatible to
   the phase 5 solution. As it does not use the HAL that is provided by
   phase 5 digital products, but hacks the hardware by using an
   incomplete knowledge of the hardware functionality - which has been
   aquired by reengineering the phase 5 digital products software - it is
   most likely that it will not work with future revision changes or
   different product releases of the PowerUp series.
   
   Furthermore, phase 5 digital products will not tolerate that an
   incompatible software takes over the control of the PowerUp hardware
   and prevents the user from running software that has been developed
   for the PowerUp boards by phase 5 digital products as well as many
   other vendors. All software which is supplied by phase 5, and in which
   we have invested lots of work and financial efforts to make the
   PowerUp a useful product, would be disabled once the Haage&Partner
   software is installed in the system. That includes for example the
   fast CyberGL native library as well as the MPEG video and audio
   decoding integrated into CGX V3.
   
   Consequently, third party products using such advanced functionality
   would not run. USAGE OF THE HAAGE&PARTNER SOLUTION WOULD RESULT IN A
   COMPLETE INCOMPATIBILITY MESS. In the interest of our customers, who
   buy our products with high expectations, and all our developers who
   expect a completely compatible product line, we will take care that
   the phase 5 system software can not be disabled.
   
   Haage&Partner has - from the beginning - rejected to use the ELF
   binary format which phase 5 has introduced on the PowerUp boards. The
   reason to choose this widely accepted format was to open the
   Amiga/PowerUp development to industry software standards. As an
   example, the ELF format allows professional development for PowerUp
   even on other platforms (such as Motorola PPC systems, IBM AIX
   systems, even on Sun or under WindowsNT), where high performance PPC
   Cross compilers are available, which integrate far superior experience
   and performance; phase 5 is currently testing such compilers which may
   offer the chance to accelerate software such as the CyberGL native
   library and the PPC MPEG library even further. Additonally, soon an
   update for SAS/C on the Amiga can be expected, which supports PowerUp
   and the ELF format.
   
   Haage&Partner, instead, wants to establish their own "extended
   Hunk-format", which may is derived from the Amiga Hunk format, but
   still a new and proprietary solution. It is a concept that forces
   developers to use the only solution supporting this format - the Storm
   C compiler by Haage&Partner. Haage&Partner declares it's product being
   open and Amiga-compliant - in fact, it is only open to the
   Haage&Partner standard and compliant to their own software solutions.
   
   At this point, it is important to mention that the software concepts
   of phase 5 digital products have all the time been focused on
   developments that open doors and smooth upgrade paths to future and
   completely revised OS versions, which incorporate functionalities such
   as memory protection and multi-processing (which is not supported by
   the Haage&Partner concept, BTW). This has e.g. also been proposed to
   Amiga International/Gateway2000 in May this year, together with our
   offer for extensive technological cooperation. To reach such a goal,
   we feel it is mandatory to set today guidelines for programming that
   make current Amiga/PowerUp developments more independent from the
   current OS revision by clear structured and object-oriented
   programming, instead of using the StormC concept of simply recompiling
   older sources (this issue will be adressed in detail later).
   
   As the solution from Haage&Partner is not compatible and can - because
   of it's proprietary software concept - not fullfill demands of
   professional developers, it is very unlikely that developers will
   choose it. phase 5 digital products highly recommends not to use this
   incompatible system, as well as the Storm C compiler which - because
   of the concept - is wasting most of the performance that the PowerUp
   boards can deliver (this issue will also be adressed in detail later).
   
   phase 5 digital products has supported Haage&partner with free
   developer systems, as well as all necessary information to develop
   compatible software and tools, thus enabling Haage&Partner to become a
   leading software vendor. We also held many meetings explaining our
   strategy and goals to make the PowerUp a useful platform not only for
   a new generation of high-performance applications, but also for the
   development towards a new OS or OS version that fullfills the demands
   of the next century. To our surprise and disappointment Haage&Partner
   has mainly used their status to create a replacement for the PowerUp
   system software which is intended to set a standard controlled by
   Haage&Partner, and they even attempt to trash the complete and
   comprehensive software development in which we have spend many
   efforts. At the same time, they have yet not been able to present a
   stable running PowerPC application which the Amiga/PowerUp user would
   have an advantage from. We highly disregard this contraproductive and
   confrontational behaviour, and will completely drop any support for
   Haage&Partner as a PowerUp developer as well as for any of their
   products.


Was soll das von Haage&Patner???

ciao
-- 
Stephan, Joerrens: joerren@uni-muenster.de
AMIGA 1200, 68040 40MHz, 34 MB-RAM, 1.8 GB-HD, CDR, AmigaOS 3.1, Linux,
MAC-OS 7.5, Win 3.1   http://qgp.uni-muenster.de/~joerren/homepage.html

