>PentriSoft FAQ's


- What is PentriSoft?

PentriSoft  is  a  non-profitmaking association for computer programmers
whose  aim  is  to  help  genuine shareware and freeware authors of high
quality programs to succeed in the world market for software.

- What platforms does PentriSoft cover?

In  theory,  PentriSoft  is for programmers on all computers, but at the
moment,  we  can  only  support  those on the Amiga and Apple Macintosh.
Although  the two 'sections' of PentriSoft share the same name, logo and
aims, we will probably keep things fairly separate.

- How did PentriSoft begin?

PentriSoft  was  the  brainwave of my friend Stephane Gray.  He is a Mac
programmer, and has since enlisted many other shareware Mac programmers.
I am now trying to do the same thing for the Amiga.

- How can PentriSoft help programmers?

PentriSoft  can  offer  individual programmers a means by which they can
contribute  to  the  shareware  system  as  well as providing the use of
advertising,  beta  testing  and  programming  tips  from other members.
Soon,  we  hope to offer some sort of evaluation system, and maybe later
on, a distribution system, where programs are advertised and distributed
`in   bulk'.   PentriSoft  has  members  with  years  of  experience  in
programming  on  the  Amiga and Apple Macintosh, eager to offer friendly
tips and advice to enthusiastic newcomers.

- How do I join?

Simply return the questionnaire/Registration file to me at:

   Mark Harman
   3 Highlea Close
   St. Leonards on-sea
   East Sussex
   TN37 7SS

I  will  then  send  you more details, and maybe put you in contact with
other  programmers.   You  will not be charged for anything at any time,
but it will speed up replies if you send an SAE.

- What does joining PentriSoft involve?

By  joining,  you  do  not  sacrifice  any  of  your ownership rights or
programmer  fees,  but  you do benefit from a network of friendly fellow
programmers,  vastly  increased  distribution,  and  the  right to use a
symbol  of software quality that can be displayed on program.  From time
to  time,  PentriSoft  may  put  other programmers, working in fields in
which  you  have  experience, in touch with you so that you can exchange
tips  and  advice  about your programs.  Please note that we reserve the
right  to  end a programmer's membership at any time (but there'll be no
need for that, of course...)

- Tell me more about the disk-mag `Double-Click'.

Nothing  is certain on this, but we hope to set up a disk magazine about
PentriSoft  and  programming,  so  feel  free  to  send  us articles and
examples  of  source  code!   The  Mac  and Amiga versions, if they both
happen,  are  likely  to be fairly different, though we hope to exchange
articles where relevant.

- I know some other Amiga programmers; how do they join?

Get  them  to  write to me (Mark) at the above address, or better still,
give  them a copy of this disk and ask them to return a duplicate of the
questionnaire (or the registration program if that's what you've got).

- I know some Mac programmers; how do they join?

This  is important; do NOT get them to write to me; instead, ask them to
write to this address:

   Stephane Gray
   Oaklands
   Rock Lane
   Hastings
   East Sussex
   TN35 4NY

He will send them some more details.

- I know programmers of other platforms; can they join?

They can join; get them to write to Stephane (above).  Note that support
for these programmers will be fairly limited at the moment, but we would
like to get PentriSoft on to many different platforms as possible.

- More about us?

Stephane Gray, who originally came up with the idea, controls all things
Mac  related.   I  (Mark  Harman)  am  in  control  of the Amiga related
section.   I shall also mention Rob Forster, who isn't a programmer, but
kindly  beta-tests  our  programs.  We are all 16/17 years old, studying
hard  for  our  A  Levels.  Who knows how we find time to do things like
this...   Both  me  and  Stephane  have  released  some PD programs, but
haven't made vast amounts of money from programming (yet?).

- What Amiga do I own?

I  ought  to  say,  since  I'm asking about yours.  I own an A1200, with
340MB  Hard Drive, which I've recently upgraded to an '030, with 10MB of
RAM.   If you're thinking of upgrading, please do, it makes your life so
much  better!   I  also  have  a  24-pin printer to slowly churn out the
questionnaires.

-What programming language do I use?

I use AMOSPro, so I would especially like to hear from other AMOS users.
Don't  worry  if  you  aren't,  however;  PentriSoft is for users of ALL
programming  languages.  I also know a little C and ARexx.  Stephane, by
the way, uses something called `Hypercard'.

- What programs have I written?

A  lottery  program  (Lottery  Numbers),  and  a file encryption program
(Protector),  both  of  which  are  in  the public domain.  I've written
various  others,  but  just  haven't  released them yet.  I am currently
working  on  `Erebus',  which  is  a roleplaying game, and have recently
produced  a  hypertext  text-viewer,  which I intend to use for the disk
mag.

-  What  if  I  drastically upgrade my Amiga, or Get a New One; Should I
Tell You?

The  hardware questionnaire is only really for beta testing purposes (if
someone  wants to see if a program runs on a particular setup, or it has
higher  than  average  system  requirements), so it isn't too important.
Having said that, I'll always be interested to hear, anyway...
